The Project Gutenberg eBook of How to Get Married, Although a Woman, by
Young Widow

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: How to Get Married, Although a Woman
       or, The Art of Pleasing Men

Author: Young Widow

Release Date: September 11, 2021 [eBook #66270]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Demian Katz, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Images courtesy of
             the Digital Library@Villanova University.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOW TO GET MARRIED, ALTHOUGH A
WOMAN ***

Transcriber’s Notes:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_), and text
enclosed by equal signs is in bold (=bold=).

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *




HOW TO GET MARRIED ALTHOUGH A WOMAN;


  OR, THE ART OF PLEASING MEN.

  By “A YOUNG WIDOW.”

  (COPYRIGHT 1892 BY J. S. OGILVIE PUBLISHING CO.)

  OHIO CARD CO.,
  COLUMBUS OHIO

       *       *       *       *       *

Murine Eye Remedies

[Illustration]

Murine is a Reliable Domestic Eye Remedy, Perfectly Harmless, and
should be in the Medicine Closet of every Family, as a “First Aid” for
Injuries or Diseased Conditions of that delicate organ, the Eye.

It does not Smart or Irritate the Eye, but is Soothing in its action.
Tonic, Astringent and an Antiseptic Lotion, and while it is used by
Physicians it is in every sense a Domestic Remedy and can be used by
every one with Perfect Safety for the Prevention of Eye Troubles and
for Affections and Diseases of the external surface of the Eye and Lids.

Recommended for Weak Eyes, Strained Eyes, Itching Eyes, Red Eyes and
Eyelids, for Well Eyes that are Tired, for Red Eyes from Weeping, for
Redness and Swelling of the Eyelids, and for Eyes affected by the
excessive use of Tobacco and Stimulants.

Your Druggist sells Murine Eye Remedies. Our Books mailed Free, tell
you all about them and how to use them.

May be sent by mail at following prices.

  Murine Eye Remedy                          30c., 60c., $1.00
         DeLuxe Toilet Edition--For the Dressing Table    1.25
         Tourist--Autoist--in Leather Case                1.25
         Murine Eye Salve in Aseptic Tubes          25c., 1.00
         Granuline--For Chronic Sore Eyes and Trachoma    1.50

  MURINE EYE REMEDY CO.
  No. Nine East Ohio Street,      CHICAGO, U. S. A.




CONTENTS.


  CHAPTER.                             PAGE.

     I. Girls and Matrimony                5

    II. The Girl whom Men Like            20

   III. The Girl who Wins                 41

    IV. The Girl who Fails                55

     V. Some Unfailing Methods            84

    VI. A Word of Warning                 91

   VII. The Secret of the Widow’s Power  107

  VIII. “Lady Beauty”                    119

    IX. The Loved Wife                   128

  Choice Selections in Poetry and Prose  145

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO GET MARRIED, ALTHOUGH A WOMAN.




CHAPTER I. GIRLS AND MATRIMONY.


It is natural for girls to wish to marry. The desire to do so is not to
be condemned, but rather applauded, for it is Heaven-born. The Creator
implanted it in the human heart, man and woman alike. God made man for
woman and woman for man. He did not intend that they should live apart
from each other. When He said, “It is not good for man to be alone,”
He included woman in the man. It is not good for woman to live alone.
He put a longing in the heart of man and woman alike which is only
satisfied by the love of the other. He made a void in the heart which
can only be filled by the companionship and love of one of the opposite
sex. Man and woman are alike in this. It is as natural to her as to
him: she can no more help it than he can. The unnatural part is that
a woman must keep still about it, and if no one comes to woo, try to
stifle the longing.

There are plenty who hold up their hands in holy horror when it is
said that a certain girl wishes to marry. It is nothing at all out of
the way when _Mr. Jones_ says _he_ has determined to marry. If his
sister Mollie gave voice to such a sentiment, it would be shocking,
however. It would be shocking for her to give expression to the longing
the all-wise Father has implanted in her heart. It is a heart, too,
that will never be satisfied with yearning only, with fame, with any
vocation, with dumb animals, with other people’s children; and it is a
wise thing it will not. It is not a wise thing, however, that Mollie
will be condemned because she cannot be satisfied without having a
fireside and home of her own, because she wants a big loving fellow to
care for her and to protect her, and whom she can love and make happy,
because she wants her own home, no matter how small it is, to adorn
and make pretty, her own housekeeping to look after, her own and his
children to care for; because she wants her own wifehood, just as her
brother wants a wife and home of his own and will not be satisfied to
be a bachelor.

Let him make up his mind to marry. The world will approve of his
decision. Let Mollie do the same thing. I want to see girls marry. I am
always glad when I hear that one is engaged to do so. To help some to
do so, I write these few chapters. There are too many old maids. There
are more than there need to be.

I feel particularly sorry for the girl who has passed the line of youth
and who has no admirers. Her brothers are all married, and most of her
girlhood friends are absorbed in a husband and a baby. She has none,
when doubtless she has it within her to make a good wife and mother.
She is often restless, unsatisfied, disappointed. If she is at all
weak-minded, she becomes sour as she grows older. She grows envious of
all happily married women, and has a secret grudge toward men because
she feels that she has been slighted by the sex generally. Many a girl
who would make a good wife is soured by her failure to become one, and
turns out an unpleasant member of society. All old maids are not by any
means like this, however. There are many unmarried women in the world
that will take up cheerfully any fate, turning their disappointment
into a blessing for others.

But I fear that, after all, they go through life with a heart
unsatisfied. Alone, when they look into the secret chambers of that
uncomplaining heart, they see there the old longings for love.

There are unmarried women who do a great deal of good in the world.
They accept their solitary lot as the will of the Heavenly Father.
But is it His will? Does He give the heart longings which He will not
satisfy? No. A thousand times, No. That would be tantalizing us. Too
often we make mistakes in life, and then declare the consequences to be
His will. It is so in failing to marry. Girls make mistakes in their
conduct and remain spinsters. The fault is their own. They do not know
how to attract, and so are passed by.

Plenty of girls do so well understand the art of attracting men, that
they have numberless offers of marriage. I know women who could not
count up on their ten fingers the men who have been in love with them:
among them men who for their sakes have remained unmarried through
life. I have had personal acquaintance with women who have been married
three times, and could, some of them, be married again. I know other
women who have never had one admirer.

I know girls who can attract men to them, and almost as soon as they
are attracted, repel them. That sort of a girl never marries. She wants
to do so, and acts through ignorance. I have sometimes felt like giving
a girl a good shaking when I have seen her spoil her own chances. I
have been dying to whisper a word of advice at times, but was too
wise to do so, knowing it would not be well received. Girls know so
fearfully much! The experiences of a mature woman count for nothing
beside the wonderful knowledge some girls in their teens have! In the
hope that some of these maidens will be willing to read what they would
not hear, when it was too personal, I determined to write down what I
know about being attractive to the other sex, what I know about girls’
failures, and why they fail.

Not long ago there appeared in “The Woman’s Department” of one of our
daily papers a letter from a young girl, in which she confessed that
she loved a young man who did not return her affection. She asked what
she should do to win him. The editor could not tell her, advising her
to give him up, very much as if it were a pleasure excursion the poor
girl was writing about. There are times when it is necessary to give up
all hope of winning a man. This, however, did not appear to have been
one of them. The girl should have been told just how she could attract,
then win him. Perhaps the editor did not herself know.

If a girl is thrown much in the society of a young man whose affections
are not previously engaged, and if she knows how to do it, she is
quite sure to make him love her. If, however, he cares for some one
else, who cares for him, no true woman will in any way try to come
between the two: she will rather avoid doing so. If the girl has
become interested before she knows of his engagement, it is a case of
misplaced affections. There I must advise giving him up. Get interested
in another man, and win that one. It might be well always for a girl
to find out first whether or not a man is interested in some one else.
That would often save a world of trouble. A misplaced affection, when
foolishly adhered to will stand in the way of a happy marriage. It is
not always the _man_ you love. Not unfrequently it is your ideal which
you make a certain man fill. Often, if you are not blinded, you will
see that instead of filling it, he “wobbles” around in the large space
you have given him. That ideal can easily be transferred to another
man. Very few hearts are so true that they love but once. They may do
so in stories, but in real life we change. We rarely marry our first
love, and almost always forget all about him.

After marriage it is a different thing. Then it is no ideal: it is
real. The man you love is real. The love is real, and continues even
after “death do you part.”

So, let no misplaced affection stand between you and marriage. Return
a love if it is offered you and the man is desirable, or set yourself
to win one. Do not go about sighing for a man who belongs to another
girl. He never gives you a thought--they are hers. Have too much
self-respect, and too high an opinion of your charms to think about
him. In a few years, impossible as it may seem now, when you meet him
middle-aged and a family man, you will wonder what you ever saw in
him to care about. This sounds heartless, but it is true. It goes to
prove that in early life before marriage it is the ideal and not the
man a girl often loves. If I am mistaken in that, I am not mistaken
in saying that a girl is happier married to a man for whom she cares
less than she did for this ideal, than in remaining a spinster because
some other girl bore off the heart she craved. To my mind a woman is
happier married under almost any circumstances than single. That I know
is against the teachings of to-day, and does not savor the least of
woman’s rights. I believe her “rights” is to be married.

Sometimes a girl who is attractive enough to win any man is kept from
marriage by the selfish attentions of one man who either cannot or will
not say anything to her about marrying him. This is not an unfrequent
occurrence. A man who, on account of his circumstances, cannot marry,
or who, because he prefers his freedom, will not marry, will pay
attention to a girl for years. He wins her affections, and keeps away
others who would be glad to marry her. Meantime she hopes that every
day she will hear the words he has given her a right to expect to hear.
In the end, if she allows this thing to continue, she will be an old
maid.

No matter how much you care for a man, give him up if, after a certain
length of time, he says nothing to you about marriage. You will lose
nothing in the end by doing so, and may gain him. If he really cares
for you, the danger of losing you will make him more anxious to possess
you. Then, if ever, he will find means to ask you to marry him. If he
does not then, he never would. If giving him up hurts you, heal the
wound by remembering that his intentions could not have been serious,
and that he has allowed himself to lose you. Remember, too, that the
hurt will come some time, anyway, and most likely when you are beyond
the age to attract any one else. So giving him up while you are yet
young means a marriage with some other man. Clinging weakly to him
means, without doubt, that he will, when you are no longer young and
attractive, cast you away for a fairer face.

Never so far forget your self-respect as to ask a dilatory lover his
intentions. Never allow your father or brother so to demean you. If a
man has intentions, no matter how bashful he is, he will declare them.
If he does not do so, he has none, and you had better give up all hope
in that direction. There are always plenty more men about who will care
for you, and who will let you know it too.

Three such cases have come to my knowledge. The girl acted differently
in each one. The first clung to her dilatory lover till he finally left
her when she was too old to attract any one else. Now, alone in the
world, she supports herself by keeping a boarding-house. The second one
had her father ask the lover his intentions, and in that way roped him
in. It was not a happy marriage. A third gave up the man who would not
propose, and shortly afterwards married another man for whom she grew
to care a great deal more.

Some attractive girls live in small towns where they can meet no one
whom they could or would marry. Consequently they have to remain
single. In such a case a man would go out and seek a wife. A girl
cannot exactly do that. She can, however, sometimes change her place
of residence for that purpose. When it makes little difference, as
far as business is concerned, where a family live, I believe a father
owes this duty to his unmarried daughters. He can take her where she
will be likely to meet an eligible man. I once knew a father with two
young daughters who left his country home for their sakes. He took a
nice house in Philadelphia, and remained there till they were both
married, then returned home. A widow with three daughters left her
farm and rented a large furnished house in New York City. As a means
of support she took first-class boarders. The eldest was considerably
over thirty, but they were all three attractive. Being so placed where
they met gentlemen, none of them were long in marrying. A maiden lady
of forty-one, very jolly, bright, and good-natured, interesting but not
pretty, and so fleshy she was a sight, had never in the east met a man
whom she could marry. She went to California to visit a sister, and in
less than a year was married to a wealthy widower.

Change of residence will often change the lonely spinster, young or
advanced, into a happy wife.




CHAPTER II. THE GIRL WHOM MEN LIKE.


Leaving matrimony out of the question, it is desirable for a girl to
aim to be a favorite with men generally. She should be a girl whom all
men like, whether or not that liking ripens into a feeling more tender.
Then she always stands the chance of its so ripening. Many a man goes
through life till he has made a success of his business without giving
a thought to marriage. When he is ready to marry, he looks about him
without any sentiment often to see whom of his lady friends he would
like for a wife. Ten to one he hits upon a girl whose character has
called forth his friendly admiration. This once settled he straightway
falls in love with something to build upon. Widowers will frequently
marry a girl of whom they thought well when the wife was yet living.

Mere beauty counts for less in the long run than is generally supposed.
It has less power in determining matrimonial choice than you would
think. Its first effects are too strong in proportion to its other
effects. It is seen at once, and instead of growing upon the beholder,
its power rather lessens as it becomes familiar. The two most beautiful
girls I ever met are now old maids. The most winning girl I ever
knew had absolutely a plain face. There was a charm about her which
attracted all men, and which made them swear, after they knew her, that
she was a most beautiful creature. Even after she had refused a man, he
loved and admired her.

You all want to look as pretty as you can, but you must not place
any dependence upon beauty to settle you in life. Many men prefer
stylish girls to pretty ones. Look about you at the married women of
your acquaintance. How few of them are pretty now, or were in their
youth. Two of the worst wives I have ever known are pretty women.
Their husbands made the mistake of marrying for beauty. A vain girl is
generally selfish, and men do like an unselfish girl. A man wants an
unselfish wife.

If you wish men to admire you, you must first be a true woman with
a noble character. Look to your home-life. Men catch glimpses of
that when you least think it. They know well that an industrious,
sweet-tempered, unselfish daughter makes an industrious,
sweet-tempered, unselfish wife. A girl of whom her brother is very
fond, and whose special friend she is, goes into the society of men,
where it is known, with a wonderful recommendation. As a general thing
you can tell how a girl will treat her husband by the way she treats
her brother. I once knew a young man who asked a girl to marry him
because he saw her tender, loving solicitude for her brother.

Men like bright girls. Even the most sober prefer a jolly, laughing
girl. As I once heard a man say about a very merry one, “Think of
having such a creature always in your home! You wouldn’t have much
chance for blues.” I knew a wonderfully homely girl who was so jolly
that men surrounded her wherever she went. Men like a good time,
and a lively girl will give it to them. If you cannot all be jolly,
you can be bright, talkative, and interested. Jolly girls are never
sentimental. A man hates a sentimental girl. Sentimental looks, long
faces, teary expressions are only attractive in novels. Men, out of
books, do not like to wipe away tears--they prefer to walk away from
them. Never forget that a man is a selfish being. Keep that little fact
in view continually; and if you want to please him, pander to it. If
anything will disgust a man with a girl, it is to see her make a fuss.
Even if you have real heart-sorrow, the more you control yourself,
the more you will be admired. Remember you look your very worst when
you cry. The tears do not “well up,” and “overflow,” “chasing each
other down your alabaster cheeks like so many pearly drops,” as they
do in novels. No: your face squints up, while your eyes and nose get
red. Instead of being attractive, unless the man for whose benefit you
have gotten up this scene loves you, he will walk away. It is manlike
to walk off at the first sign of a storm, and to avoid everything
uncomfortable. Bear that in mind. When you treat a man to a scene on
any subject, you lose your hold upon him. Ten to one he will leave you
to seek the society of some lively girl who is wise enough to hide her
tears.

A man likes a sensible girl. He likes real good common sense. Nothing
is more trying than an unreasonable woman, and a man will not have
anything to do with her when he does not have to do so. He may be
politely pleasant to her, but he does not care to have her for his
wife. To be sure plenty of unreasonable, trying women are wives.
(I would they were not!) They had the faculty of hiding their real
character before the binding vows were spoken. It is better to have
nothing to hide. Be your honest true self always. If you are naturally
endowed with common sense, try to cultivate it. Learn to be reasonable,
and try not to be governed by your feelings. A man never cares for a
girl whose feelings and not duty are her guide. Bear in mind that I
am not talking about the man who is in love with you, but the one who
views you calmly but may sometime love you.

Men like good-natured girls. I know two sisters, the eldest of whom is
quick-tempered, resentful, ill-spoken, and is over thirty without a
gentleman friend. She never had one. The younger, not yet nineteen, is
good-natured and lively. All the men who know her like her. One man, in
fear of her being carried off by some one else, has secured her promise
to marry him.

A man likes to feel that the wife he takes to his home is going to
brighten that home. He does not want a high temper to contend with. A
girl never shows off to a worse advantage than when she is angry. Men
are attracted by sweetness of disposition. No greater compliment could
be paid to any woman than is paid to the Princess of Wales when she is
called Her Royal Sweetness. Directly we hear that, we are drawn to her.

Sweetness of mind and manner is woman’s greatest charm. A sweet woman
is beloved by every one. It is woman’s province to be sweet. Gail
Hamilton says, “It is the first duty of woman to be a lady.” I say, it
is her first duty, after being a Christian (which is certainly first
of everything), to be sweet. She says to be a lady is more than to be
a prince. Let me add that to be Her Royal Sweetness is more than to be
Her Royal Highness. We all are won by a sweet manner. A sweet smile
will even draw us to a stranger. It can be yours if you will cultivate
it. Begin at home. Lay the foundation there. Be sweet at heart. Do
not put on gracious smiles and winning ways for the outside world
only. If they are not natural, you will be caught tripping sometimes.
Circumstances may arise when you will show the man whom you are the
most anxious to win what you truly are. Although that will be a good
thing for him, it will be bad for you. Be genuine. Counterfeit is
detected in the long run. I know a woman who outside is the very ideal
of sweetness, but who is a perfect demon at home. She won her husband,
whom she now drives almost to madness, by that assumed sweetness. In
spite of smiles and graciousness, she is the most friendless woman I
know. The world demands genuine coin, and will detect counterfeit.
So begin at home to be sweet, and unconsciously it will become your
natural manner. You will not have to assume it: it will be your own.

A girl may be more than plain, even homely, but if her manners are
gentle, her voice sweet and low, her bearing womanly, her power is
wonderful. A charming smile unlocks many a door which is barred to a
stiff, ungracious manner. A charming smile warms every one it greets.
It is particularly winning to a man. It has in it a welcome which
fascinates him, and brings him to you again. A gracious, sweet manner
is of more account in winning your way with the sterner sex than
millions. More girls are married for their sweetness than for their
money. A charming, bright greeting, will sometimes engage a man’s
interest or attention on the spot.

“Be courteous” at all times. “Be courteous” under all circumstances
even the most trying, in your family, among friends, and with
strangers. I remember it was said of a sweet girl at school, “She would
be polite to Satan himself if he came to her room.” I almost believe
it. I once heard a truly sweet girl say, “I was so provoked;” when
another girl broke in, “I don’t believe that. Any one knows that you
cannot get provoked.”

Sensible men like an economical girl. A man does not want to feel that
after marriage all his money, especially if he does not have much of
it, is going to be wasted.

Men like healthy girls. A man hates to hear a woman complain. He is
not sympathetic. Men rarely are; but then you must take them as you
find them, not as you would have them. Just there lies the secret of
some girls’ failure to attract; they have no patience with a man’s
imperfections, and are unwise enough to allow him to see that they have
discovered them.

Men like girls who are hearty and who have a hearty interest in things.
A real live girl is always a favorite. A man avoids a sentimental girl.
Do not quote poetry. Do not look languishing. Do not model your conduct
after the heroines of novels. Study real life, and be real. Do not
expect anything to occur to you as it does to girls in novels: it never
will.

Do not exact too much attention. A man hates to give it where it is
exacted, even when it is your right. It is their way to pay it only
when they feel like doing so. A man never wants to be controlled.
Before he is in love, he is particularly alive to any effort to do so.
When he is in love, he is more blind to it; but even then it is not
well to press it.

To be thoroughly attractive you must have a great deal of tact. Tact
has been called the supremest weapon in a woman’s hands. Without it,
she is helpless. With it, she is powerful. Tact will enable you to see
just what to do, how to do it, what to say, and how to say it. Men are
not all alike. What will please one may not please another. They are
all built on the same general plan, however, and if you know one well,
you know pretty much all there is to be known about the whole sex. Yet
different lines of conduct are to be pursued with different men. A girl
with tact grasps this in a moment. Indeed, she grasps the situation
every time and pleases every time. You must understand man-nature.
You can learn a great deal of it from your brother. Let me tell you
too that if girls would more frequently advise with their brothers,
they would get along a hundred-fold better. A brother can give you an
insight into other men, and at the same time look after your interests.
You will rarely fail to go right and to do right, if you will make him
your confidant. Find out what he likes, and you will know what other
men like.

If you would be attractive, you must hide your feelings. I know of no
time at home or abroad when it is well to show your real feelings if
they are disagreeable. Bear in mind that I do not lay down a code of
laws to be practised only abroad regardless of your home-life. Let the
first man upon whom you try your winning arts be your father. Make him
sure that you are the most perfect of girls. Then try your brothers. As
the most lovely of daughters and sisters, you will be real when you are
attracting other men by your winning manners.

A man likes a girl who is read up--at least in the news of the day. He
does not want to be instructed, and he never likes a girl who knows
better than he does about things. If even you are sure he is wrong, do
not correct him. That would be a wound to his vanity, which is itself
a fatal thing to do. If you are better educated than he is, do not let
him know it. Appear to receive instruction, and let your knowledge
be a sort of cushion for his. Be interested in what he talks about,
and willing to learn. Give him your full attention when he talks to
you. It is a lack of tact that makes a girl show a want of interest.
It is a lack of tact too that makes a girl let a man see what a good
opinion she has of herself, when she ought to be showing him what a
good opinion she has of him. It is very well to have it settled in
your own mind just what you are, and what your attractions are, but do
not let any know of that opinion. It is well to have a good opinion of
yourself: it will give you an ease in society and a confidence to go
ahead and win. Be sure, however, that you are worthy of that opinion.
Be sure that you are not deceiving even yourself.

Never allow a man to sacrifice his comfort for you. If he is rude
enough even to ask to smoke in your presence, with your sweetest smile
give him permission to do so. Promote his comfort in every possible
way. They notice these things and like such attentions. Do not feel
it your right always to have the best of everything and he the worst.
Decline to accept the sacrifices that he as a gentleman will insist
upon making. Some girls will heedlessly accept anything with a sort of
blind gross selfishness. The girl who is unselfish at home, and who
looks out for the comfort of her family before she does her own, will
unconsciously carry the same winning spirit with her wherever she goes.
The girl who is selfish at home, and who puts on her sweetness with
company dress, will often forget all about it, especially under any
excitement.

Do not allow a man to spend much money upon you. He rarely cares to
do so, but does it because it is customary among a certain class, and
thinks that you expect it of him. Give him a pleasant surprise when
he invites you into a restaurant or elsewhere, by declining. You do
not want to be indebted to him in a monetary point of view--it lessens
your dignity. It would not be a pleasant thing to hear him count up how
much he has spent upon you. A man will do it, and make remarks about
it to other men too. They have it all done to a fine point, and know
just which girl is expensive in her tastes, and which one it costs the
most to take out. I have heard them talk when I have been behind the
scenes. Some girls, I am sorry to say, will even go so far as to hint
that they would like to be taken to a certain entertainment or out for
refreshments. There is much bitter truth in the jokes we read about the
ice-cream girl. The writer of them, I always think, has smarted under
the custom.

No matter what a man is himself, he likes a modest girl. True modesty
has a great charm. A girl without it is like a faded flower. As a
general thing, her end is sad. Beauty is fleeting, but modesty gives
a charm which outlasts youth. A retiring, gentle girl is something
to seek after; and a man rather seek. A bold girl may receive more
attentions from a certain class of men, but less love in the long run.
That “certain class of men” you want to avoid instead of seeking to
attract them. The real gentleman, the kind for whose attentions you
care, never wants anything to do with a bold, loud girl. The loud girl
is never a lady. Cultivate a low, sweet voice at all times. Abjure
slang and chewing gum. Of the two evils I do not know which is the
worst; but I do know that no true lady is addicted to either.

Men like large-minded, large-hearted girls. They like girls who have no
envy in their nature, who can be fair and just even to a rival, who
will see good in every one, and speak of that instead of the evil.

If you meet a girl whom you feel is your superior, emulate her; try to
become all she is. At the same time, be large enough to acknowledge
her excellence. Your very humility and sweet praise of her will be
a winning grace. Ten to one the man will think how sweet you are
instead of seeing the excellent traits you point out in her. Bitter,
narrow-minded girls have an idea they can bring a superior girl down to
their level by casting mud at her. It is a species of mud that always
flies back, with a sort of a double back-action arrangement, and does
all the harm to the thrower. In the first place, it is not Christ-like
to speak unkindly of any one; in the second, men hate to hear it. It is
only a weak one who will join in with you. In the third place, it is so
small, and tells so plainly that you are narrow, envious, inferior.
Instead of trying to pull a girl down, always try to climb up beyond
her heights. Be large enough to discern and acknowledge whatever good
you see in any one. Be charitable to the wrong-doings of your friends.
Never mention the plainly seen faults of another girl. In this evil
world, be as though you saw no evil. Be pure. “To the pure all things
are pure.” Let all things and all people be pure in your sight.

Make yourself worth having, and men will want to have you. Strive to
cultivate a true womanliness and to become an efficient person. Be a
girl who can help herself, who is not ignorant of work or too lazy to
do it. Do not be a mere toy whom men will flirt with and then drop when
they want to marry a woman who will be a helpmeet. Sensible men do not
want to marry a bundle of nothing for a wife. When they are cheated
into doing so, they repent it all their lives. You do not want to think
that the man whom you will marry is going to repent the act. I know I
would rather die on my wedding-day. I think that if a man to whom I was
married should hint by word or deed of such a repentance, I would feel
that my life was a complete failure, and should want to go out of it
then and there.

Be accomplished and brilliant if possible, but above all things prepare
yourself to be a helpmeet for a man. Men like talents in a girl,
especially music; but a man likes to have his wife know how to keep
house. Learn that. Learn to make all sorts of garments and to cook,
even if you are wealthy.




CHAPTER III. THE GIRL WHO WINS.


Being an attractive girl whom all men like is not exactly the same
thing as setting about deliberately to win some one man’s heart. It has
been said that the girl thinks of matrimony before the man does. He
goes on blindly and thoughtlessly until he is so deep in love that he
cannot retreat; while from the very start she thinks whether or not she
would like to wed him.

It may be that you know some young man whom in a womanly way you would
like to win. Let us suppose that in the secret recesses of your heart
you have decided that you would like to marry him.

In the first place, you must not fall deeply in love with him. If
you fail, you do not want to be broken-hearted; and too, when a girl
is really up and down in love, she loses control of herself. She is
no longer sure of herself and of her conduct. You must keep cool and
calculating. You must admire the man, and feel that at that time he is
the only one you could love. Lose just enough of your heart so that,
when he is won and asks for your love, you can give it to him.

You must be able to arrange your mode of warfare, and always have
perfect possession of yourself. There must be no silly excitement when
he is present, and downcast face when he is away. Such a course would
surely provoke comment; and your conduct must not be commented upon. No
one must be allowed to suspect that you are interested in him. It is
not your province in any way to go a-wooing; but you can work wonders
in the way of winning the man you want. I have read that a woman may
marry whom she will. I almost believe she can. You cannot, however, go
about in an open way as a man can. With him the battle is sometimes
half won when he makes it known that he wishes marriage. With you it
would be all lost.

You must never run after a man. Make yourself so attractive that he
will seek you. Then it is all in your own hands. You can keep him
beside you. You may have to wait some time for him to come. Be patient.
Nothing is ever accomplished without patience. An impatient, nervous
anxiety on your part will be likely to spoil everything. Never go where
you know he will be and where he does not expect you, if you can avoid
doing so. Better, by far, let him miss you where he anticipates seeing
you than to see too much of you. His disappointment will show him how
much he is interested in you.

Do not hesitate to let him see that you have a modest, maidenly
interest in him. Men like that. It must be done in a retiring way as
if you did not intend to have him see it, but could not help yourself.
While a man will boast of a girl running after him, this little secret
of yours, which by his acuteness(!) he has discovered, he will keep
sacredly to himself. The very modesty with which you try to veil it
will heighten its value in his eyes.

Do not hesitate to let him see by your greeting that he is welcome.
I do not mean that you are to be effusive. It is done by your smile,
your look, more than by words. Girls make the mistake of greeting a man
coolly in fear of appearing forward or of showing a regard. Never be
cool to the man you want to win. Ward McAllister says in his “Society
as I Have Found It”: “The value of a pleasant manner is impossible to
estimate. It is like sunshine; it gladdens. You feel it, and are at
once attracted to the person without knowing why.”

Young girls are rarely mistress of these sweet, little, but telling
arts. The knowing just how comes later in life. Balzac has said that a
woman of thirty is at her most fascinating and dangerous period. The
women who have been the most famous for their power over hearts have
all been nearer forty than twenty. This seems incredible to you yet
in your teens. You now look upon twenty-five as a species of old age.
At thirty, you think, as far as men are concerned, a woman is in the
sere and yellow leaf; while at forty they are little less than in their
dotage. Look out, that while you are counting on your youth to marry
you, some of these females in the sere and yellow leaf, or even in
their dotage, will carry off the prize, because she knows how and you
do not. The fact is, the woman of thirty is still young now-a-days,
whatever she was in our grandmothers’ time.

She can win men’s love too. She knows the world so well that she takes
men as she finds them, while the girl in her teens does not. The girl
aspires too often to make them fit in her narrow mould. Girls are
too often narrow in their ideas. In the secret acceptance of a man’s
faults, or taking him as you find him, lies a great deal the secret
of power over them. You girls are too sure of yourselves, too fixed
in your opinions, too certain that you are right and that others are
wrong. You are too anxious to set a man right. They have a way of their
own of not wanting to be set right. They never want to be corrected. If
they are wrong, their ignorance is bliss to them.

Girls have little charity. They are generally hard in their judgments
of everything and of everybody. They take delight in showing off what
they know, and making a man feel like a fool. A man never allows the
same girl to make him feel like a fool twice. Once is enough for any
man. He seeks the society of another straightway. Girls are given to
display a superiority, and make a man feel small. Again he walks off.
A man never falls in love with a girl who makes him feel small. Now
the charming girl hides her own opinions--her superiority, and brings
out what is best in the man. This is what you must do every time. When
you seek to win a man, make him pleased with himself. The better he is
pleased with himself the better he will like you. This is not done by
bold, outspoken flattery (although a man will swallow larger doses of
that than you suppose), but by adroitly showing him his own best side.
If you have to touch his tender places, do it with a soft hand that
will soothe instead of wound.

A man likes a smart girl. Your smartness or your brilliancy must,
however, be kept in the background. You must not use it to dazzle him,
but to make him feel that he is brilliant. If he is witty, never try to
be more so than he is. If he is highly educated and you are more so,
still be willing to be instructed by him. Never aspire to teach him. A
man does not want to be set right by a woman.

If he is a talker, so manage that he will do all the talking, if he
wishes to, while you are the interested listener. I do not mean that
you are to be mum: you are to be so interested that you cannot help
sometimes breaking in. All your remarks should be to the point, and so
worded that he will be led on until he is even surprised at his own
powers of conversation and brilliancy. There is no surer way than this
to keep him at your side. If he looks at his watch it will be to see
how much longer he can remain with you, not because he wishes to hurry
away. When he finally must leave you, he will have so much better an
opinion of himself that he will be quite a new man. His thoughts of you
will be most flattering. He will not know why. Men rarely analyze their
emotions. If they did, it would be worse for us and our little arts. In
a certain way they go about blindly.

A man is self-centred. He loves to talk about himself. His vanity is
his weak point. If he is no talker, and all other topics fail, lead him
to talk about himself. Only one man in a hundred will fail to respond
to this bait. He does not know that he is engrossing the conversation
in this way: he only knows that you are delightful.

The wonderful charm some girls have for men lies in the interest she
shows in him, and the tact with which she makes him think well of
himself.

A man will not be snubbed. In novels, especially of the Duchess kind,
the abject small creature whom she calls the hero thrives upon it. His
love feeds upon snubbing, and grows more intense. He falls in love at
first sight, and the worse his charmer treats him the more he loves
her. This is not true to life. These books are full of false ideas, and
do much harm to the girl who reads them.

It seems almost coarse to advise flattery. Flattery is coarse. You can,
however, discover a man’s good qualities, talents, etc., and praise
them without limit. Men will swallow large doses of praise without so
much as a wink. They do not even know you are praising them; they are
only conscious of being pleased. You must be discreet, however, in
giving your doses, and above all things avoid getting the name of being
a flatterer. You can sometimes give praise with an unsparing hand, but
you must be sure of the right occasion. A public man may be praised _ad
libitum_. In fact, a man who sings, acts, speaks in public needs it.

The private man wants it too. He gets less of it from the world in
general, and your good opinion, delicately expressed, will be all the
more acceptable. When you have a field all to yourself, be sure and
improve the occasion.

The girl who is affectionate wins. I do not mean to imply that you are
to embrace every man you meet or to allow anything of the kind from
them. You are to show a certain warmth of feeling. No man likes a cold
girl. Ice repels. A friend of mine, whose great attraction was her
warmth of manner, mowed down hearts like ten-pins Her greeting always
was more than cordial. She gave almost an affectionate grasp of the
hand, allowing her hand to lie there a mere shadow of time, while her
beaming smile showed her delight at the meeting. There was life and
warm blood in the touch of her slender fingers which made many a man’s
heart beat quickly for her. She made a man feel that in winning her he
would be winning a loving wife, and that is what a man always wants.

Another equally successful girl made the man with whom she was talking
feel that he was the only man of much importance in the world; all her
interest was in him--just in him. Every look was flattery of the worst
kind.

We sometimes say that a girl has an indescribable charm and a way with
her that no man can withstand. I think her power is simply that she
makes a man think better of himself. She gives him a confidence in
himself. She makes him pleased with himself. She shows an interest
in his greatest interest, himself. Instead of wounding his vanity,
which is almost greater than his heart, she flatters it. Men rarely
overlook an insult to the former. A girl who has made a man think less
of himself may give that man up on the spot. She is crossed off of his
books forever.

There are occasions when you must exercise a good deal of forbearance
with a man if you wish to win him. A man is prone to wander. He may be
paying attention to some other girl when you most want him. Although
it is very annoying, there must be nothing cold in your greeting when
he comes to you again. You must not reproach him. You must simply make
yourself a great deal more fascinating than she is. You must be more
sweet and winning if possible than you were before. Take pains never
to speak ill of this possible rival. It is neither Christian-like or
lady-like to do so. It is bad taste. The man knows you are jealous.
He hates to hear bitter words. It looks very much as if you could and
would make bitter remarks to your husband. If you reproach him now
for wandering, he may judge truly that your husband will have little
liberty. If you are jealous and inclined to make a fuss before there is
even any engagement, what will you be like after marriage?

If you would win, cultivate a sweet, gentle, forbearing spirit. Be
always gracious. Cultivate a kindly manner. “Be free from arrogance,
self-assertion, self-consciousness, considerate of the feelings of
others.” Be courteous and kind in manners to every one.




CHAPTER IV. THE GIRL WHO FAILS.


“The young man fights shy of the girl who makes a dead set after him,”
was the inelegant, but o’er-true paragraph I read in the paper not long
since. The paragraphist was evidently a man and knew his sex.

The girl who runs after a man fails. She more likely disgusts him
than flatters him. He does not want her or her attentions when he can
have them without the seeking. It is man’s province to woo, and his
whole nature seems to revolt against a turning of the tables. I call
to mind a schoolmate who on this account was a complete failure. She
was pretty, bright, even witty, well educated, moved in good society,
and had money, but no man wanted her. Her boldness disgusted all of
them. When she saw one she fancied, she paid such open court to him
that he avoided her. Some time afterwards, when she saw the uselessness
of pursuit there, she turned her attentions elsewhere, running after
another man. Although naturally attractive, I never knew a man who
wanted her.

I have known of other girls who have never married for this same
reason. It seems to be a common fault. It is a serious one. If you are
at all inclined to be forward with men, stop it. You will not only
fail to marry, you will lose respect. You gain nothing and lose all.
You cheapen yourself and your charms when you “throw yourself at a
man’s head.” As it has been decreed from the beginning of the world
that man is the head of the woman, so it is decreed that as he shall
protect her, he is the one to woo and she the one to be won. You will
meet coarse men who will respond to all your advances. They will pay
you attention just for the fun of the thing. They will never marry
you, and it would be a good lesson to you if you could hear them talk
of you among themselves. A man never spares a girl who has no respect
for herself. A man whom you run after may even say many tender things
to you. He may lead you up to the point where, if you had not begun
it, you would have a right to expect him to ask you to marry him. He
doesn’t. He stops just there.

A girl’s great charm is a sweet, womanly modesty, which appears to hide
a love she cannot help feeling.

It is a great mistake to let your male friends see you with any
blemishes upon you. If you have a breaking-out on the face, a swollen
cheek, a red nose, or anything which disfigures you, hide yourself
till it is over. Men like to idealize a girl whom they admire, and
they cannot idealize a swollen face or a red nose. I knew a girl who
continually had styes on her eyes. She was not wise enough to hide
herself at the time, but continued to go out where she would meet her
male friends. She has never married, and I have always thought that
this is the reason. Another girl had her front teeth drawn, and went
about toothless for a while. Other girls do not hesitate to let men see
them with their bangs in curl-papers. A man will never let you see him
with his hair not combed or with his face lathered for shaving.

Be tidy always. Have your hair combed, your dress neat, even if it is
old. Patches are to be respected, while holes mark the sloven. Always,
even if you are scrubbing the floor, be ready to see any one who
comes. The very one in whose eyes you most desire to appear well may
come then. Some men have a way of dropping in at such unexpected times.
Many a man has been disillusionized by a dirty dress or a frowsy head.
Men like a nice appearance. They never want to marry a sloven if they
know it. A bright and interesting writer has never married for this
reason. Her head is never combed, and there is always a rip somewhere
in her dress. Her hands are generally touched off with ink.

The independent, self-reliant girl is rarely a favorite with men. A
man loves to protect. He does not like a masterful, bossy girl. He
does not want to follow as if he were a spaniel. It is a poor specimen
of a man who does not want to lead. Three sisters were left with a
very little money at the death of their father. They were self-reliant
and thorough business women. They invested their money to such good
advantage in real estate that in a few years they became wealthy women.
They were never married. It would have been impossible for any man with
any self-respect to have loved either of them: they were so mannish,
independent, and self-reliant.

Do not be of the so-called woman’s rights order. Men hate strong-minded
women who are forever harping on the wrongs of women and of the rights
they are going to have. That kind of girl generally does have a
wrong--the wrong of being neglected by the sterner sex. A woman’s right
is a husband, a home, and children. It is her right to have something
to love and to make happy. When she wants to usurp a man’s place, she
is going out of her sphere and makes a failure of her life. If you have
a leaning towards “woman’s rights,” erect yourself and lean the other
way. If you do not, you are doomed to unattractive spinsterhood, dress
reform, and the lecture platform, and to feed on husks. That sweet
little wife yonder, who hardly knows who is being voted for, and whose
horizon is bounded by her husband, is feeding on corn. She believes
that her rights are wifehood and motherhood, and she has them.

A self-assertive girl fails. A self-assertive, selfish, self-centred
girl is no man’s ideal. It is unwomanish as well as unwomanly. A girl
who can push ahead and take her own part is generally allowed to do so.
It is a mistake to be anything that is unfeminine. Men never admire
girls who have masculine characteristics. Only a fool will marry her.
Do not ape men in dress or manner. Strive to be womanish and womanly
at all times in every way. The attractive woman is womanly sweetness
personified.

The girl who insists upon attentions gets none. The girl who looks upon
her escort as her slave _pro tem._ loses him. You must never treat a
man as if he were your servant. He will not stand it from you, although
you may be attractive in other ways. His manhood will assert itself,
and no matter how much he has loved you, that love will be killed. It
is a poor outlook for married happiness. He does not care to wed where
he knows he will be henpecked.

A poor girl will marry before a wealthy one will. The latter has it
written upon her that it costs a mint to keep her. She may be much
admired, but she is an expensive luxury. Unless a young man has
exceptional means, he must give her up. You will find numbers of
unmarried women in the highest society everywhere. Men are afraid to
marry the daughters of millionnaires, unless a large dowry is going to
be among the wedding presents. Extravagant habits, they know, have
been her rule. She has never been taught to economize in anything. She
must have an establishment as elegant as her father’s. She could not
think of beginning as humbly as her parents likely did. So she either
fails to marry at all, or marries late in life, when the death of her
parents has given her an independent fortune.

A girl who shows her anxiety to marry generally fails to do so. A man
feels that it is marriage and not himself that she wants. That wounds
his vanity. She is never self-possessed in the society of men. She is
so anxious to please that she plans beforehand what she will say. When
she says it, it comes out wrong and does not fit in. She is trembling
and eager even if she does not run after him. Like vaulting ambition,
she o’erleaps herself. Every time you meet her, she has new and fresh
hopes. She is waiting always anxiously for a proposal, and would
accept any man who offered himself regardless of creed (almost color),
circumstances, character, and condition.

The sharp, snubby girl never succeeds. A man will not stay where he is
snubbed or where his vanity is wounded. Some girls, especially very
young ones, have an idea that they are saying smart things where they
are only saying sharp things. You hardly realize what a great mistake
you are making when you try to be witty at a man’s expense. You only
make a greater one when you are cutting in your remarks. Girls have an
idea that it does a young man good to have, as they express it, “the
conceit taken out of him.” I doubt if it does, and even so, you are
not the one to do it. Let him have a good opinion of himself in his
youth. Help him to it, rather than to try to take it away from him.
The outside world will give him knocks enough as he battles his way
up in it, to take any amount of conceit out of him. Maybe he comes to
you sometimes just smarting from one. Let him find for his wounds a
balm. Learn to soothe and sympathize instead of hurting. Your tongue
is sometimes so unwittingly cruel. Your laugh is so heartless that you
make a man with a rhinoceros skin shrink. It all flies back upon your
own head, however. You will suffer for it afterwards. It will only
drive him from you. Girls often can attract who cannot keep a beau.
Notice them. See if they have not sharp tongues and do not love to take
the conceit out of a man. “He has too good an opinion of himself, but I
let him know what I thought of him,” I have heard girls say. One thing
is certain--if you have done that, you will never hear from him that he
thinks much of you.

So round off your sharp corners. Remember that the young man with a
good opinion of himself is the more easy to win, because you can play
upon his vanity.

Do not speak your mind plainly. Certain persons pride themselves on
plain speaking, as if there were a virtue in hurting some one else’s
feelings. When you hear any one say, “I always speak my mind,” you may
know she says disagreeable things. She thinks when she has said that
that she can go ahead, cutting right and left with her tongue. They are
never people who praise. It appears that those who say “just what they
think” generally think unkind things.

Avoid doing so, especially to a man. It is unkind. It makes more
enemies the world over than anything else. Men will swallow praise _ad
nauseum_, but they will not take censure.

The eccentric girl had better never have been born, as far as men are
concerned. They will have nothing to do with her. If you are eccentric
and have prided yourself upon it, the sooner you become like folks
the better for you. A man will not pay attention to an oddity. An
outlandish hat that causes comment will sometimes drive him away. He
may not know what is the matter with it, but he knows he will not ask
you out while there is any danger of your wearing it. It is a mistake
to be odd in your conduct or language. Eccentricity grows upon one. If
you are given to it in your youth, what will you be in your old age? A
man would know that if he were rash enough to marry you, every day you
would make him ashamed.

The girl who has too many gentlemen friends hardly ever marries. There
is something in every man’s heart which subscribes to

  “The rose that all are praising,
   Is not the rose for me.”

There are cases where jealousy of another’s man’s attentions will
hasten a proposal. But two are in the case there, however, and both
are in love. Avoid many gentlemen callers. Do not allow your house
to become a meeting-place. A man will not fall in love where he sees
you smile as sweetly on another man as you do upon him. He will reign
alone. He never goes on shares where a heart is concerned. A man may
call often, where he knows he will meet other men, but it is only as
a friend. He does not fall in love with his hostess. When he marries
it will likely be some little modest girl who hardly knows any man but
himself.

When I was very young I remember hoping that when I grew older I would
have as many gentlemen callers as a certain young lady who lived near
us. Every night her parlors were thronged. It seemed to be a general
meeting-place for young men. Her sister and herself lavished their
smiles upon them. She never married. Her sister married a man whom she
met in another place, and who hardly ever came to the house. Another
girl had quite as many callers. She must have seen her danger, for she
ceased to receive them. Some time later she married.

It is flattering to your vanity to have a great many gentlemen friends
who call, and who take you out, but it will certainly stand in the
way of marriage. It is fun, doubtless, to count up a long list of
escorts, but the girl who can do so rarely counts up a long list of
offers. A girl who was so retiring that she was rarely invited out by a
gentleman, was loved by almost every man who got well-acquainted with
her. She could have counted up a long list of offers but a short list
of escorts. At a party she was a wall-flower. She had few gentlemen
callers, yet it seems as though all men longed to possess her. She
passed most of her evenings alone with her family, and married well. So
it shows that knowing many men would rather indicate no marriage than a
surety of one.

The cold girl never succeeds. A man would as soon make love to an
icicle. A man prefers fire. He likes a warm, living heart. He wants to
see that a girl has that heart. A pretty, stylish young girl whom I
want to see settled in life is failing to do so on just that account.
She in not naturally cold, but when she is at all interested in a man,
she becomes almost frigid in his presence. She is too afraid of showing
her interest in him to allow him to see that she responds to his. A man
wants an affectionate, warm-hearted wife. So he will marry what seems
to him to be an affectionate girl. There is a certain warmth of manner
that will show this disposition.

A girl fails who will not let the man who is beginning to love her see
that she can return love. It must be shown modestly, however. You must
be sympathetic. Man has his success and his failures in life. As he
comes to you, he is thinking of them more than he is of you. He wants
to talk of them. If you do not show a sympathetic interest, he will go
where he can get it. Draw him out on his favorite topic, no matter if
it is himself. I remember once walking two squares with a gentleman who
talked of nothing else but a slight injury on his hand.

An interesting, intellectual lady is going through life unmarried
for no other reason, I believe, than her lack of sympathy. You are
conscious of this lack whenever you converse with her. If you mention
yourself, your humble aim and ambitions, a dead silence falls. You feel
as if you were undone and wish you could hide your head. A woman will
hasten to change the subject and to make amends. A man leaves and never
returns.

A man likes to look, as it were, in a mirror. He likes to see himself
reflected in the eyes that meet his. He wants to feel that the girl has
so much interest in him that she is interested in every word he says
about himself.

The girl who talks about herself usurps his prerogative. He does not
relish that, and her society is stupid to him. _I_ is a man’s pronoun.
_You_ is a woman’s. Very young girls who are filled with themselves
and their own affairs are very much given to this. As they grow older,
they see it does not do. Bear in mind that no matter how pretty you are
or how sweet, if you will talk about yourself to a man, you become “as
tedious as a twice-told tale vexing the dull ears of a drowsy man.”
There is an old witticism which tells the truth in a nutshell: “What
is a bore? A man who talks about himself when you want to talk about
yourself.”

The high-tempered girl fails. A man bent upon matrimony avoids her if
he is aware of it. If you have such an infirmity, try to get rid of it
as you would a facial blemish. Try harder; for it is indeed far worse
than any bodily disfigurement. Our Lord, whose strength is sufficient
for you always, will help you to do so. Some girls falsely call it a
high spirit. It is anything but that. It is a weak spirit. A girl who
gives way to temper has no control over herself. She is weak instead of
high and strong. Her doors are always open, and whoever will may come
in and upset her. Instead of being proud of it, be ashamed of it. While
possessing it, your life is a failure everywhere.

A sweet, interesting, lively conversationalist is one thing, and a girl
with a long tongue is another. Avoid gossip and meddling.

It is a mistake to entertain a gentleman with an account of your
neighbor’s failings and backslidings. His interests are broader. He
rarely stoops to such little things, and they weary him. Men never care
for girls who have the reputation for being gossips. Fill your mind
with better things. Read and enlarge your powers of conversation.

It is a mistake to be inquisitive. While a man likes a girl to be
interested in him and in his doings, he does not want to be questioned
about them. A walking interrogation point is never a pleasant
companion. When you draw him out it must be with tact.

A precise, prim, what we call an old maidish girl is a failure. She is
born to a lonely life of spinsterhood. Unless she change she cannot
escape her fate. At heart she may be all that is true and good, but
no man will ever find that out. As a rule men judge of us by outward
appearances. They take women more for what they seem to be than for
what they are. The good qualities of the prim girl are all lost upon
him.

With gentlemen a loud girl never succeeds. She can always attract the
attentions of coarse men, but a well-bred man avoids her. He loves
modesty. He does not want the girl whom he escorts to be conspicuous
by boisterous talking and laughing. He does not want her to be
hail-fellow-well-met with every man they meet. It shows she has no
modesty. He cannot respect her and will not marry her. It is never nice
to be “gay” or “fast.” The men whom you attract about you by it are not
the men you want to marry. They are the kind who do not want to marry
you or any one else.

Loud, conspicuous dressing is never an attraction. Men like stylish,
well-dressed girls, but they never like anything that is flashy or that
attracts attention.

The girl who imagines every man she meets is in love with her rarely
is loved by one. This is a common fault with young girls. It comes
either from innate silliness or from the reading of too many novels.
The worst of it is, she is not even cured of her folly when the men
do not propose to her, but do to some other girl. She imagines some
insurmountable difficulty was in his way, and that he has only married
the other girl out of pique. That is the way it was in the last novel
she read. Girls, be sensible. Every man you meet will not fall in love
with you. When one does, he will let you know it. Men are not given to
sighing in secret over one girl, then marrying another without love. A
man who loves you will be open about it. He will not avoid you. He acts
on the spot: sometimes without much thought. So when a man does not pay
attention to you, rest assured, unless you have offended him, that he
does not want to do so. He is not in love with you. He is more likely
to pay attention without loving, than to love without paying attentions.

A vain girl fails. The pretty girl who depends altogether upon her
looks and is proud of her beauty, rarely marries. I have spoken of this
before. It has been thought that in matrimony, as in other fields, the
plain-featured girl has the greatest success. A pretty girl starts out
with false notions of her charms. She thinks that she has only to be
seen to be loved. She overestimates her one gift, and does not try to
cultivate others. Youths who easily fall in love and as easily out
again are caught by a merely pretty face. Men want something more.

Let me quote from an article on this subject which I read the other
day: “Look about you and count the number of faded, thwarted beauties
you know, who are embittered dependents, or else late in life have
picked up a broken stick in the shape of a partner to help disguise
their crippled vanity. In fact, so frequently is this the case that
between the ages of sixteen and twenty-six only extraordinary virtue
and talent ever saves a belle from grievous folly in her aspirations.”
So if you are a beauty and wish to marry, I advise you strongly to put
aside all vanity, and to cultivate the superior charms of your plainer
sisters.

Never allow your mother to do the courting. There are times when a girl
can win a man against his will, and he will never know that it was she
who did it. A mother never can do this. A man knows it every time. When
he sees her efforts, he is forewarned and on his guard. It is all done
in cold blood and deliberately by the mother. The daughter has less
deliberation and a great deal of warm blood when she attempts it. He is
likely to think: “What an interesting girl! I believe I could get her
if I tried,” and may try. Of the mother’s efforts, he thinks: “That old
woman wants me to marry her daughter. I can see through her. I won’t do
it.”

A mother may make herself so attractive that, if she were a girl, she
would win him. Notwithstanding that, he hardens his heart against the
daughter. A lady who, even as a grandmother, is attractive to men,
tried in her early married days to win a young man for her sister. He
responded quickly to her overtures, and seemed glad to come to the
house. She thought she was succeeding, when one day he said to her:
“I know what you are about. You might as well give it up, you won’t
accomplish it. If you were not married, however, I would propose to you
to-day.”

She did give it up.

A girl makes a mistake who brags of her conquests. She should never
speak of them to any one. If a man whom you cannot accept offers you
his hand, forget that he did so. By your manner to him when you meet
afterwards, endeavor to make him forget it. The girl who tells about
the hearts she has won, wins no more. Men grow afraid of her. She is
not to be trusted, they think. If she will lead other men on to propose
only to reject them, then tell of it, she will do the same to them.

A girl who fears that the man to whom she only is pleasant will
think she is in love with him, is not likely to accomplish much
matrimonially. She grows too self-conscious and stiff in her manner.
You must forget yourself, or remember only that a man is won by a
pleasant manner. If he did think you were a bit interested in him, he
would be flattered by it, and might return it shortly.

By a pleasant manner I do not mean a continual giggling. While you must
be animated and lively, you cannot laugh continually. A sensible girl
can be grave as well as gay. There are times, and plenty of them, when
laughter jars. There is certainly a time to laugh and a time to cry;
but there is never a time to giggle. Solomon gives a list of almost
everything for which we have time, but he never says a word about
giggling. A bright, animated manner and continual giggling are two
different things. A bright girl is everywhere a success. A giggler is
generally considered half-witted. A giggler has no depth of feeling. A
bright, lively girl generally has a great deal of feeling; she is not
slow to show it, either.

Do not laugh when you talk. Do not laugh the moment a man speaks to
you, keeping it up all the time he is with you. It looks as if you were
delighted out of your senses. Do not laugh every time he looks at you
till he begins to wonder if there is a black spot on his nose. Some men
may prefer a grave girl any way. You might study the man and the place
before you are too lively.

It may be that some of you who read these chapters have failed so far
to win any man’s love. Examine yourself and your peculiarities to see
wherein the trouble lies. When you have found it, strive to overcome
the difficulty. You cannot do it in your own strength. The Lord will
help you. He will give you grace to overcome every evil temper, every
disagreeable habit, every unlovely manner. If you ask Him, He will
make you sweet and lovely. Rest assured that He is interested in your
success; for He did not intend woman to live alone.




CHAPTER V. SOME UNFAILING METHODS.


It is universally known that when a man and woman have a mutual
interest, they get interested in each other. When they are in any way
drawn together, they soon find that they cannot live apart. When a man
grows accustomed to a woman with whom he is pleased, he desires to keep
her with him. So we may consider that a companionship with a man is
an unfailing way to win him. This companionship unfortunately is not
always easy to arrange.

It is often difficult to get up a mutual interest. When you can, be
sure to do so. It must come naturally however. A forced arrangement,
plainly seen, would defeat itself.

Marriages frequently take place between parties who board in the same
house. Seeing each other daily, getting well acquainted, and the
mutual interest, even of the table, will draw them together. A young
lady boarded, with her brother, in a house where there were no other
young ladies, but a number of gentlemen. All admired her, several were
smitten with her, and two asked her hand in marriage. A third began to
think more of her than of the girl to whom he was engaged.

A widow, with a nice home of her own, took two clergymen to board. It
was not long before both wanted to marry her. She did not want either
of them, but took the one who was the most persistent.

Singing together is another mutual interest. It is the means of many
a marriage. In a quartette, the soprano and tenor marry, the bass and
alto. The singer may marry his accompanist. Jennie Lind married her
unknown pianist, Goldschmidt, who was younger than herself. Actors, who
are always thrown much together, marry and unmarry _ad libitum_ in a
disgraceful way.

The marriage of the type-writer and her employer is so frequent that it
has passed into a joke. They grow interested in each other from mere
companionship.

A student falls in love with the sister of his friend where he visits
during vacation. The late Henry Ward Beecher met his wife at her
father’s home whither he had gone with a college chum, her brother.
I had an aunt who had offers from two students brought home by her
brothers. This is such a common occurrence that enterprising mothers
sometimes urge sons to bring home desirable students to introduce to
her daughters.

A lawyer will marry a fair client. I might add that he is the more
likely to do so if he is settling up a large estate for her.

A physician rarely marries a patient. If your heart is set upon a
certain physician do not play the rôle of an invalid. When you are sick
you should have a married physician. A young lady was taken ill with
pneumonia. Her family were strangers in the place, and, without knowing
it, called in an unmarried physician. He was interested in the case,
but not in the least in her. A year later he met her, when in perfect
health, at the house of a mutual friend and fell in love with her.

Living next door to each other will often make young people interested
in each other. Church-work which brings young men and maidens together
is fruitful of many marriages. A young man was put on a fair-table with
a number of ladies. He fell in love with the only unmarried one on it.
A young clergyman comes in contact with so many girls, and is so run
after, that going to his church and entering into the work for his sake
is but lost labor. If you want to work in a Church, do it for the Lord,
without a thought of who has charge of that body of worshippers.

We learn from Abelard and Heloise what the pupil will become to the
teacher. Almost always, when neither are married, free lessons in
love accompany another kind of a lesson--that is, if the lessons are
private. Men fall in love with a lady who teaches them anything. A
young lady was taught Hebrew by an unmarried clergyman. They married
about a year after the lessons began.

A man and woman who are in business together almost always marry. An
author has been known to marry her publisher. A Mr. Maxwell published
Miss Braddon’s novels, and now she is Mrs. Maxwell. Margaret Sydney
is the _nom de plume_ of a writer who married her publisher, Daniel
Lothrop, of Lothrop and Co.

An almost certain way to win a man’s love is to win his confidence.
When a man talks to a woman about his greatest interest, he becomes
interested in her. When he opens his whole heart to her, he gives her
that heart. I never knew this to fail. How to win this confidence is
the puzzle. The very man you want may be the one who knows the most
about keeping his affairs to himself. You will have to use tact and
patience in drawing him out. Get him to talk about his business, or
make him talk of his books, his pleasures, his family: always about
himself. Persist in this gently. Show him you can keep a secret.
Encourage him to talk about himself until he touches upon something
that is nearest his heart. Some men will do this sooner than others.
The man who readily confides in you, readily falls in love--and almost
as readily falls out. It is said that the heart which is easily won is
hard to keep; and that the heart which is hard to win you never lose.
When you have drawn any man to tell you his heart unreservedly, he is
yours.

A young man was in love with a girl of whom his mother did not approve.
He was much distressed by the fuss she made. He did not want to give
up the girl or to pain his mother. He must talk of his trouble to some
one, and he selected a young girl who was visiting the family. He told
her all his troubles. She encouraged him with infinite tact until he
spoke unreservedly. Whenever he could find her alone he talked of that
and of nothing else. Then he planned to be alone with her. Before three
months he loved her better than he did the first one.




CHAPTER VI. A WORD OF WARNING.


The greatest mistake a girl can make is to allow familiarities
from men. A girl must be circumspect in her conduct. She must be
self-respecting. Having a proper self-respect and being a prude are two
different things. A man never likes a prude. He never, in his heart,
cares for one who has no self-respect. A man, of a certain class, will
pay her attention and take advantage of the liberties she allows, but
he never marries her.

You are not safe if you allow the least digression from the right path.
A slip once made can never be recalled, and the second follows very
easily on the first. Then comes the third, and so on, till ruin is the
end for you--not for him.

It is a girl’s own fault if she fall. It is her place to guard her
honor.

You will meet many a man who is lover-like and fascinating, but if he
says nothing about marriage, leave him alone. You do not want to hear
of love, if that is all he has to say. Never mind if you do love him.
If he loves you and finds he cannot possess you otherwise, he will want
to marry you.

Beware of the beginning. Be careful of your conversation. Never smile
at a joke with a double meaning. Meet it with silence. Do not pretend
you do not understand if you do: there are men who would take pleasure
in enlightening you. There are times when it is well to show that you
do not approve of it; you may even have to rebuke it. Thereafter avoid
that man. If he cares to continue your friendship, he will know how he
must behave himself.

Never let a young man repeat a story to you that he would not repeat
if your mother were present. A man who would do that, means no good
to you. An old and excellent rule is, never talk about anything to a
man you would not talk about before a third party; and never talk to a
girl as you would not talk if a man were present. Never say anything to
either which you would not repeat to your mother. A well-known writer
has lately said: “It is always a mistake for a young girl to talk
to a man as if she were _blasé_ and widely experienced in all human
emotions, frailties, and faults. Many inexperienced, innocent girls
adopt this manner, thinking it will render them fascinating in the eyes
of men. Men take us for what we seem, not for what we are. The most
hardened _mondaine_ who wears a mask of frank innocence fares better
with them than the good, sweet-hearted girl who puts on _blasé_ airs
and pretends to be a little wicked.”

Let your heart be pure. Keep your lips pure. God can make and keep them
so. He can take away all interest in sin.

Never make an appointment with a young man of which you cannot tell
your mother. When a young man urges you to deceive your mother, he
means to deceive you. Your mother is your best friend; make her your
confidante in all things, then you will never go astray. On the first
approach of familiarities, consult her and be guided by her advice.

Men do not have to be told: they know what girl they may approach
familiarly and what one they must treat with respect. You may be sure
there is something wrong in your conduct if you are approached as you
do not wish to be.

Be careful not to call a man by his first name unless he is a relative.
A well-bred lady will not even address a man thus whom she has known
in her childhood. Do not allow a man to call you by your first name.
You can easily show by your manner that it is distasteful to you. Check
even the liberty of your Christian name with the prefix Miss. Although
you may have an older sister, you have a right to your father’s name.
If you cannot be Miss Jones, you can be Miss Mary Jones.

When you are out walking with a gentleman, do not allow him to grasp
your elbow. Some men do this instead of offering the arm. He is
ill-bred if he attempts it. It is too familiar altogether, and is
becoming too common. A polished gentleman will not do it. He will offer
his arm.

Beware of allowing a caress from a man to whom you are not engaged.
Stifle in the beginning any attempt to do so. Do not so much as allow
him to hold your hand. No matter if you do like him, and if his warm
grasp does send the happy blood to your heart, it is a happiness you
have no right to--neither has he, until he has spoken. Sometimes these
things, small as they seem, are but the first step on the broad path
that leads to destruction. Perhaps you like as much to feel that strong
arm about you as he does to put it there. It is in his power to make it
right to do so; it is not in yours, so refuse it. Believe me, you will
gain nothing by it, and may lose all. If a man finds he cannot embrace
you unengaged, he will take steps to be engaged to you if he loves you.

Poor child! You allow it because you love him. It may be anything but
love for you and your good that prompts his action. A man rarely binds
himself to a girl who allows his caresses without it. Another thing,
while you are treasuring up this caress as a closely-guarded secret,
he is doubtlessly telling his comrades what liberties be can take with
you. That is too true. The indiscretions which a girl will hide, he
will boast of--it is a man’s nature. He judges you by himself, too.
He knows that he kisses other girls when he can get a chance, and he
supposes that you allow other men’s caresses. A man cares more for the
caress than for the girl. When he is not genuinely in love, one girl
will do almost as well as another. He supposes it is the same with you.
He argues that if you are cheap to him, you will be cheap to other men.

“Never speak of love till your lover speaks of marriage,” is a good old
rule. Men do not talk much about marriage to a girl who will profess
her love before he asks her to be his wife.

Be careful to whom you give your photograph. Like figures, they cannot
lie. If you have given it, you cannot deny doing so: it is there, a
fact, in the young man’s possession--he may show it to whom he pleases.
He generally pleases to show it to all his male friends. It is another
thing which cheapens you. Your picture is one of a collection he has of
girls. Maybe for a while, when exhibiting his gallery of beauties, he
may call you his best girl. He does it all lightly, and as the young
men look over the collection, they will make remarks about you all
which, if you heard them, would make you blush. If a girl has no more
respect for herself than to give a picture to every man who asks for
it, you must not expect men to respect her. It is no sign a man loves
you because he asks for your picture. If he does, let him ask for you
first. He more likely wants to enlarge his collection of photographs.
If you went into his room, you would see it stuck up in his mirror with
a dozen or so of others.

It is a mistake to imagine that an engagement breaks down all barriers.
Engagements are so frequently broken. Instead of being almost as
sacred as marriage, they are held lightly. You must continue after
your engagement to be careful of your conduct and not to allow any
undue liberties. Do not let your lover’s caresses be too frequent or
passionate. Some young people act as if they only become engaged so
they might kiss each other--they spend all their time at it when they
are alone. Some of these things are sweeter if they are waited for.
Couples who are parted during their engagement generally are the most
happy when they are married. They have not exhausted their affection;
instead of its being an old story, it is fresh.

If it were worth the while, I would advise you not to sit on a man’s
lap till you were his wife. It is quite customary with lovers, I know;
but it seems to me to be letting down bars which should be left up.
Engagements are so easily broken that there should be stricter lines
drawn. Surely no true woman who has entered upon her second engagement
wants to remember how she sat on the lap of the first betrothed. While
there is no harm in so doing, you will be on the safe side not to.

It is wrong to take money from your betrothed. If you live on dry
crusts and work till you drop, refuse it. Be married in calico rather
than have his money buy your wedding-dress. Sometimes girls will urge
a speedy wedding-day. You have no more right to do that than you have
to ask him to marry you--the two go together. If he is too slow and
you know of no reason why he should be, he does not care much for
you; you had better break the engagement. However, if your heart would
break with the engagement, try to make him more anxious to have you all
to himself. It is not a girl’s place to be eager for the marriage. If
you are self-supporting and want to marry him because you are tired of
working, you wrong him. No matter what reason you may have for wishing
an early marriage, it is never your right to propose it.

Attentions from a married man are blasting to a girl’s reputation. No
matter how fascinating he is, how much you admire him, how much you
like his attentions, refuse to accept them. He is desecrating the most
sacred ordinance, marriage. He is insulting you and wronging his wife.
Eventually he will return to her, leaving you with a tarnished name.
His wife will forgive him, and society will forget he went astray; but
his wife will never forgive you, and society will never forget it.
You will always be spoken of as the girl that was “crazy after him.”
It will stand in the way of a marriage for you. Men do not care to
marry a girl who has been talked about, or whose name was coupled with
a married man’s. You lose everything by it, almost your character.
There is no such food for gossip as the attentions of a married man to
a girl. They suspect you are not all you ought to be, they have good
reason to do so. They may think if you will encourage a man to trample
on his marriage vows, you would trample on your own. You are condemned
by every one.

Your vanity may lead you to feel a degree of triumph in winning a
husband from a wife. It is no triumph, however, to do so. The man who
will be so won is in most cases extremely weak and decidedly untrue.
It is not that your attractions are superior to hers, it is that he
is fickle, and you were the first girl who accepts his unlawful love.
Instead of being a triumph, it is a sin. Instead of being a subject
for boasting, it is something to be ashamed of. Instead of encouraging
him for one moment, flee from him. Instead of looking upon him as your
lover, consider him your worst enemy: an enemy who for the selfish
indulgence of the time would ruin your whole life. In this world of
sin and sorrowful consequences of sin, you cannot be too careful of
yourself, your conduct, and your associates. If a man is known by the
company he keeps, much more is a girl. Much misery will come from one
imprudent, maybe innocent, act. A trifle may sometimes be what starts
you on the road to destruction. That road is broad, and very enticing
to some; but the end is death. Never drink with a man. The pity of it
that this should have to be written down! There is a class of girls who
aim to be a little fast. They think they make themselves attractive to
men by keeping pace with all their sins. They think men will like them
if they have a “good time” with them. They call this a “good time.” It
is an unmitigated bad time; a time that will make you and him bad too.
You will fail in your object, for you will not attract him. It is a low
man who will care for a girl who cares so little for herself.

Instead of drinking with a man, keep him from doing so. Your power
over men is very great, girls; it is much greater than you think. You
can make him good or bad, if he loves you. If he is only your friend,
you can help him withstand temptation and turn him from wrong. Try to
exhibit the ideal woman always. Let your character be so elevated that
you will raise the man who walks beside you. Be a pure, true girl, and
he will be a better, purer man. The very thought of you, as he goes out
into a sinful world and meets temptations of which you are ignorant,
will be a shield to him. Next to the strength God can give him, will be
the remembrance of your goodness and purity. He will, for your sake,
abhor things which before had a fascination for him.

Always be wrapt in a cloak of sweet maidenly reserve and dignity.
Then no tongue can assail you, no man will dare to offer you any
familiarity; the conversation and conduct of men will take a better
tone in your society.

Try to make every man you meet, even a passing acquaintance, better.
Resolve that you will know no man whom you will not influence decidedly
for good. So act that when you look back in after years you can
honestly say that you tried to make every man whom you knew well, a
Christian. So strive to lead young men to Christ that you will see the
fruits of your efforts dotted all along your path of life. Let every
man whom you know be able to say, as he looks back, “I have been a
better man for knowing her.”

In all your intercourse with men, do everything to ennoble and nothing
to lower his character. “Let him see that you are a true woman and a
Christian: one whose life is beautiful in its maidenly dignity and
attractive loveliness.”




CHAPTER VII. THE SECRET OF THE WIDOW’S POWER.


There is no doubt that a widow can, if she choose, attract a man where
a girl is powerless to do so. She has a charm which is irresistible
when she pleases to exercise it. This power lies greatly in her
knowledge of man-nature. It lies also in her taking a man just as he
is. Instead of wounding his vanity by trying to make him conform to her
ideas, she makes him pleased with himself as he is. Girls have sharp
corners which hurt a man if he runs against them; widows never have.
Girls are unkind; widows never are. Girls like to tease and ridicule a
man; a widow is too wise to do so. Girls will wound even a man who is
not sensitive; a widow soothes. Girls never remember a man’s feelings;
a widow never forgets them.

She has studied one man thoroughly. She knows his peculiarities, his
weaknesses, his strong points, his likes and dislikes. In knowing one
man well, she knows his sex. She has learned well what will please
one man. In learning that she knows what will please all men. She has
learned to sink her own individuality. She has learned to follow,
and has no desire to lead. She knows that men like to be obeyed. She
knows they like their ease. She knows they would rather be amused,
entertained, than to dance attendance. She knows that the best way to
entertain a man is to make him talk of himself or his hobby. She never
minds how much he rides this hobby when he is with her. A girl would
forbid its entrance. A widow may even get up and ride with him. When
a girl would show a man she has no interest in his affairs, a widow
would make him believe she was even more interested than he was. A girl
would say, “I get so sick of hearing that man talk on that subject that
I won’t listen to him.” The widow draws him out. Where a girl would cut
him short, she encourages him to go on at length. He begins to connect
her with his hobby. He learns to come eagerly to her with every new
development, sure of sympathy. When he is downcast about it, he comes
to her as quickly for the encouragement he is sure to get. He begins to
feel that there is no one in the world who understands and appreciates
him as she does. The rest soon follows.

A widow is sympathetic--she is sincere in that sympathy. She has
suffered and feels for all who suffer. She can understand a heartache,
because she knows what it is to have her dearest earthly hopes
shattered. Her life is a disappointment, and she can weep with those
who have been disappointed. She has found out that life is not a bed of
roses only, but has many thorns. She will help soothe the wounds that
thorns have made in other hearts. She knows that men have troubles,
little or great; and she knows too much to give him any more. She has
stood by one man as he has fought with the world, and knows that it is
woman’s province to strengthen him by her sympathy and helpful word for
the battle. She knows that when a man seeks a woman’s society he wants
peace. She knows his vanity is wounded every day in his contact with
men, and that when he comes to her he wants it flattered.

So a widow tries to make a man happy and comfortable. She rarely
alludes to her own grief. It is more interesting because she does not.
She mutely appeals for sympathy, while she gives that same sympathy.
Few young girls know anything about sorrow; they cannot understand
what it is. They are generally so full of themselves they cannot
sympathize. Herein lies their weakness, and herein lies a widow’s
strength. Sympathy is a woman’s greatest power. Girls are self-centred;
a widow never is. A girl is absorbed in her own pleasure; a widow has
learned to make the pleasures of another hers. A girl puts herself
forward prominently; a widow sinks her personality. She has learned to
do so. She knows the man with whom she is talking is more interested in
himself than he is in her. She knows that no man cares as much for her
interests, plans, hopes, as he does for his own; and she talks of his
only. She lets him take the lead in the conversation, she follows.

A young girl has moods; a widow has none. She is always the same. A
man is sure of her. He knows when he leaves her, she will be the same
when he meets her again. I have known girls to lose an admirer by a
cool greeting or change of demeanor. A widow never would. It is said
that Madame Recamier’s great charm was her gracious sweetness, which
was under all circumstances the same.

A girl fancies that a man thinks of her all the time, as she does of
him. She likely thinks of him all day and dreams of him by night. A
man, out in the world, is engrossed in business--that is his first
consideration. It is only his leisure he can give to her. He goes to
her for his pleasure. A widow knows this. She has other things to
occupy her mind, and comes as fresh to him as he does to her. She knows
that he has not lived over and over her last remarks, and she has not
dwelt upon his. She makes no mistakes in estimating his affection for
her.

She never puts his affection to a test. Girls love to do so. A widow
knows that it will have to be a pretty strong one that will stand it.
She never makes any experiments. She knows him in and out. She knows
what will please him and what will not please him. She knows what
flatters his vanity and what will drive him away. Her lessons have been
too thorough to allow any mistake.

Experience has taught her that the best way to win a man is to make him
think more of himself. Experience has taught her that she can have her
own way easily by proper management. A girl fights openly for her own
way. She is unsuccessful as her plans are open.

A widow knows that the royal road to a man’s heart lies through his
stomach. Her little dinners and tempting lunches are a part of her
mode of warfare. A man will always go where he can get a good dinner.
He does not wait for a second invitation, and hardly a first. A man is
always pleased with himself (unless he is a bad case of dyspepsia) when
he has a good dinner. When he is pleased with himself, he is pleased
with those about him.

When a man knows that an evening call means a pretty little lunch, he
is quite sure to come again. He goes first for the sake of his stomach,
and later for the sake of his heart.

A widow never forgets that the better friends she and the man become,
the more likely he is to love her. With a man and woman there is but a
short step from friendship to love. It has been said that there is no
such thing as Platonic friendships between the two sexes. A widow knows
that friendship ripens more quickly over the well-laden table than
under any other circumstances. A girl trusts to romantic surroundings.
A widow never does. She has found out that her hero was fleshly, and
she knows that all men are. She knows that only a boy, wildly in love,
prefers moonlight to a substantial meal.

If a girl takes a meal with a man it is always at his expense. A widow
never allows a man to spend much, if any, money upon her. She knows
just how little he cares about doing so. She has heard the opinion
of one man strongly expressed on that subject. She will not put one
stumbling-block in a man’s way.

A widow knows how to dress. She knows just the kind of dresses a
man likes. She rarely is given to display. She chooses quiet tones
or continues to wear black. Costly apparel she is well aware will
frighten away a man of limited means. She studies herself, and how to
dress, so as to make the best of both. Her art is so perfect that it is
hidden.

A widow is in no haste to wed. Many do not wish to do so at any time.
She does not have to marry for a home: she either has inherited one or
is able to support herself. She has no fear before her eyes of being
an old maid. Years do not lessen her chances, as they do a girl’s. She
does not pretend to be young. Youth is not her attraction. In these
respects she is as independent as a man. It is not matrimony alone she
cares for, if she marries, but a congenial companion. If she does not
meet the right one this year, she may the next. She can afford to wait.

A widow is conscious of her power. That gives her a good command of
herself. She knows, from one man at least, if not from more, the full
value of her charms. She knows her power to retain one man’s love even
until the end. She knows how to make a man happy. She has done so.
She knows that what once won love will do so again. She knows a man’s
weak points: she knows his strong ones. She knows her own weak points:
she may have been told of them very plainly. These she takes pains to
strengthen.

Old bachelors are proverbially hard to win. When one does marry it
is almost always a widow. She only seems to know how to attract him.
She knows what a hard fight it will be, and sets deliberately about
doing it. She knows he is selfish. Only a selfish man tries to avoid
family ties and troubles. Your warm-hearted, unselfish men always
marry. A widow is not shocked at his selfishness. She has not looked
for perfection. She helps him be selfish. She makes him look upon her
as one who will encourage his pet foibles. She shows him that she will
help him with them; instead of having to give up for her “my dog and my
cat,” she will pet “my dog and my cat.”

Yet a widow has a great drawback. There are some men at whom she can
never get a chance. A man who does not wish to marry avoids a widow. He
will pay attention to a young girl perfectly sure he can withstand her
charms; but the young widow is a different person. He knows that if he
allows himself to begin there, he cannot break off. Dickens gave the
key-note to the whole situation when he said, “Samivel, beware of the
widders.” For ages Samivels who do not wish to marry have obeyed that
injunction.




CHAPTER VIII. “LADY BEAUTY.”


The following is quoted, verbatim, from an English novel entitled,
“Lady Beauty; or, Charming to Her Latest Day.” As it bears upon this
subject, and many may not have read the book, I copy some parts.

“You will find that your own enjoyment is heightened by the
consciousness of power to please others.... Let this ever be in
your mind: ‘I am a creature formed to give pleasure.’ Be courteous,
be gentle, be refined, be sweet in all your dealings. Never lose
your temper: it ruins the face; and it always leaves a disagreeable
impression which nothing rubs out. Depend upon it, men may respect
those creatures who are called women of character, which generally
means women who perform awkwardly duties which with a little thought
they might perform in a charming way: men may respect them, but when
they want enjoyment they turn to women who study the art of pleasing.
Now, what I want to teach you is, to be solid and pleasing too. Believe
me a woman is seldom called upon to do anything which she may not do in
an agreeable style if she will only take pains.... Never disarrange for
an instant the drapery of pleasantness which a woman ought always to
wear: keep it on you even for your husbands.... Be agreeable even when
you are alone with your looking-glass. Please everybody as far as you
can. Study morning, noon, and night to be agreeable.

“Don’t expect too much of men and women, and you will learn to be
good-humored over their selfishness and hypocrisy.

“Learned talk is very affected. Be as well-educated as you please, but
don’t seem so.

“She had a frank, spontaneous sympathy with life all around and in
every part, such as I never met in any one beside herself. By reason
of this virtue she was always interested in what was going on, and
the very quality which subdued her individuality in one way made her
character fresh and delightful in another. She resolved to charm others
with happiness and goodness in view, not mere society conquests.... She
used worldly methods for most unworldly means. The polish, the graces,
the social attractions, the accomplishments, literature, and wit, which
some despise, she used as the very material out of which her noble
purpose must be woven.... In the secret interior of her intentions she
was truly devoted, trying by the spell of a beautiful womanhood to
make those with whom she lived better and happier.

“‘Tell me about it,’ she whispers, oh so low, so deliciously. She
meant, ‘Anything you say will be sweet to hear.’

“Too womanly for coquetry or coyness, she gave her answer at once.

“Warmth, purity, tenderness, principle, all the finer parts of
character were hers.... Her face was beautiful because it was the image
of the soul.

“It is a good maxim: ‘Never really be angry.’

“To the opposite, her sister relied on her beauty for a place among
her sex, and was at no pains to cultivate conversation, letters, or
any branch of the art of pleasing except the setting forth of her
personal charms. Had her manner and her talk been what she might easily
have made them, she would have shone out as a beauty in the prime of
her womanhood. She had no lack of sense nor of education, either; but
proudly reposing on her incontestable loveliness, she rather withdrew
than put forward her attractions.

“I wish to convince women that it is a great mistake on their part to
suppose that their power to please departs with youth. At all times
I have noticed that men of sense seldom admire--or grow enamored
of--women for beauty alone, but for character, manner, taste, and
conversation. Now, while beauty, we must admit, lessens with time,
character, manner, taste, and conversation may each be refined and
enriched.... Mere beauty is but one bright unchanging beam: it will
even grow wearisome; but wit, sense, courtesy, and humanity are forever
casting forth new and unexpected rays and enlivening intercourse with
agreeable surprises.

“She was the best dresser I ever knew. Her appearance pleased numbers
of people before they saw her face.... She managed through all the
changes of fashion to respect herself and her own figure and face: in
the fashion she would always be; but still she would modulate it so as
to be the queen and not the slave.

“Her manners in society were captivating. With what graceful attention
she heard what you had to say. How modestly she gave her own
opinion.... She tried to please. She knew that a woman ought to be
an object of admiration and affection, and she ruled her whole life
with a view to this fact. Her religion gave a richness, a sweetness, a
seriousness to all her charms.

“You will laugh when I tell you that Lady Beauty at the age of
fifty-three had a new lover.”


“BEAUTY RULES.”

“Rule One.--A woman’s power in the world is measured by her power to
please. Whatever she will wish to accomplish, she will manage it best
by pleasing. A woman’s grand social aim should be to please.

“Rule Two.--Modesty is the ground on which all a woman’s charms appear
to the best advantage. In manner, dress, conversation, remember always
that modesty must not be forgotten.... Not prudery. Modesty is of the
soul. Prudery is on the surface.

“Rule Three.--So the woman’s aim is to please, and modesty is the first
principle.

“Rule Four.--Always dress up to your age or a little beyond it. Let
your face be the youngest thing about you, not the oldest.

“Rule Five.--Remember that what women admire in themselves is seldom
what men admire in them.

“Rule Six.--Women’s beauties are seldom men’s beauties.

“Rule Seven.--Gayety tempered by seriousness is the happiest manner in
society.

“Rule Eight.--Always speak low.

“Rule Nine.--A plain woman can never be pretty. She can always be
fascinating if she takes pains. I remember well a man who was a great
admirer of our sex telling me that one of the most fascinating women he
ever knew was not only not pretty, but as to her face decidedly plain.
‘Her figure,’ he said, ‘was neat, her dressing faultless, her every
movement graceful; her conversation was clever and animated, and she
always tried to please. She was one of the most acceptable women in
society I ever knew. She married brilliantly.

“Rule Ten.--Every year a woman lives, the more pains she must take
with her dress.

“Rule Eleven.--In all things, let a woman ask what will please a man
of sense before she asks what will please the men of fashion. You see,
if a woman lives for the commendation of men of fashion, she will, if
pretty, piquant, or what not, have a reign of ten years. But if she
remembers that she has charms of mind and character and taste, as well
as charms of figure and complexion, the men of sense will follow her
for a half century; and in the long run the men of fashion will be led
by the men of sense.

“I have often asked myself, ‘What is the secret of her character?’ and
I have always come to the same conclusion: that if her religious faith
were deducted from her, she would not be what she is, but must become a
less agreeable and not so good a woman.”




CHAPTER IX. THE LOVED WIFE.


Our life-story does not end, as it does in the novel, when the
wedding-bells ring. After that comes the real life. The wedding-bells
are but the call to more faithful duties, more earnest, unselfish love,
greater effort to be attractive, more pains to make the husband happy
than were taken to win his love. They ring out the birth of a love that
is until death. They ring out the knell of all coyness and romance.
The hero becomes the very human man: the shy girl is a woman who is to
be his helpmeet. They ring out the beginning of a battle where man and
woman must stand shoulder to shoulder if they would win. They tell
of a conflict where there will be strength in union, but in division
weakness, destruction of happiness, complete failure, disgrace, and
sometimes even death.

A girl rarely considers the deep responsibilities she takes upon
herself when she marries. She is more often thinking of the happiness
it will give her than of what she is to be to the man. She does not
stop to think whether or not she is going to make her husband happy.
She forgets that from that time his whole happiness, his success in
life, almost his soul, are in her keeping. “A man must ask his wife’s
leave to thrive” is altogether true. A wife may be a dead weight or
an inspiration. The dead weight drags even the strongest down, and an
inspiration helps him to conquer every time. I have heard a man with a
bad wife say: “Oh, I have no heart in me to do anything. She takes it
all out of me.” I have known a man with less ability, but with a true
wife to inspire him, to conquer where the other failed.

Marriage itself is not happiness unalloyed. Life never is in any state.
You are happier married than single, but marriage has its hard places.
The romance soon dies out. Real life comes. The every day living
together brings friction. It is for better and for worse. It seems a
light thing to say at the time when you are sure it will all be for
the better. You fancy you have only half learned his goodness. In many
cases that is so. In many more it is not: it is for the worse. Then
the break comes. Gradually his weaknesses will be revealed to you. The
golden idol shows clay feet. Slowly the gilding is all rubbed off, and
the idol is seen to be clay all through. Many a woman meets with this
disappointment. It is the great disappointment of her life. God help
the woman who finds that her husband is unworthy of her love! A weak
woman sinks under the blow, and drags him even farther down. A strong
woman will stand up bravely and in the end draw him up to her heights.

She must gather together all her love for him. She must allow religion
to take the helm with this love or all is lost. Sometimes love reels:
sometimes the senses do. Then, of all times, a woman must watch herself
well. She is fighting a terrible battle with her disappointment as well
as with his faults. They must be silent battles: the more silent the
stronger they will be, and the more sure she will be of victory. She
must never by hint or word let any one outside know of his failings.
If they are of the kind which go before or which are well known by the
community, she must show the world that she is blind to them. She must
never speak against her husband even to her own mother. She must never
admit that he has a fault. She has entered into a partnership where
one partner cannot be untrue to the other. She has promised before
God to honor him. Her loyalty may save him. It is certain that if she
does talk about him, and it comes to his ears, it will drive him away
from her. When a breach is made between husband and wife, it widens
continually. What in the beginning is a tiny thread soon becomes a
broad gulf. It is really wonderful what a little while it takes for
this breach to widen, and how disastrous are the effects. Our daily
papers are a continual illustration of that fact.

A perfect wife will never allow her opinion of her unworthy husband to
be known. If he is unkind to her, she hides it as she hides her own
misdeeds. Indeed, she would rather take upon herself the blame for
any trouble others may have seen. She is pleased always with any kind
attention he receives. A lady wrote her sister, with whom her husband
was stopping for a few days: “He writes me you are doing every thing to
make his visit pleasant. Thank you. Whatever kindness you bestow upon
him you bestow upon me.”

You will find plenty of listeners when you tell of your husband’s
faults and your own wrongs. They will be your apparent sympathizers.
Not one, however, will respect you for doing so. No one will care about
you. Almost all will repeat it to some one else. It will be generally
said that you live unhappily with your husband. You will have as much
blame as he has. It is the way of the world. It knows pretty well that
the wife who so far forgets herself as to talk against her husband
is as much to blame for the trouble as he is. She cannot be a good,
loving, Christian wife, who is trying to lead him to better things.
Such a woman would hold her tongue. In telling, you have simply opened
all the doors and windows of your house and invited the community to
look their fill at your most private affairs. The rest of the doors
and windows of the community are closed. You have noticed--have you
not?--that your confidence has not been returned. No, indeed. It is
well known that the woman who cannot guard her husband’s honor cannot
respect another’s confidence. If only in the sight of men then, the
untrue wife is the loser. She sends him into greater wrong. She undoes
herself as she undoes him. Together they must rise or fall. Many a
woman in her blind anger at her husband has tried to crush him. Like
Samson, when he would crush the Philistines, she has succeeded, but
only to bury herself in the ruins with him.

That her husband is not what she thought him, is no excuse: she took
him for worse as well as better. She is simply showing that she is not
one whit above him, and that he has been decidedly deceived in her. He
has gotten the worse too.

Unfortunately true, good men have bad wives, too--they are not confined
to bad husbands only. There are wives of good men who forget that the
husband’s whole happiness depends upon them. Many a wife forgets this
great responsibility. His business may be successful and everything
outside going along satisfactorily, but if he has no peace at home
he has no happiness. A woman who does not make her husband happy
fails in her great life-work. She is unworthy to be the mother of his
children. God gave woman to man to be his helpmeet; she is no helpmeet
if she makes his life wretched. It is her highest pleasure, her great
“rights,” to smooth his path. If she fail there, she far better never
have married.

What a man wants in his wife is companionship, sympathy, and love.
He wants to feel that she is his best friend. He never wants to look
anywhere else for sympathy and help: he never will if he can get all
he needs from her. His life has many hard places: he needs a companion
to go over them with him. He is often overtaken by misfortunes: he
needs some one to stand by him and sympathize as she helps him to bear
them. He has to fight with poverty often, and he needs a woman whom
he feels, when he puts his arms about her, is worth fighting for.
He has many enemies: he needs a wife whose loving words will make up
for the bitter ones he hears from them. He needs a wife who will make
him forget, when he is in her presence, that there is an unkind world
outside. He meets sin everywhere: he wants a wife who will give him
words of counsel, and who will take his hands and lead him to greater
faith in, and love for, the Father. Storms will come all through life,
he must encounter them. He needs a woman who will cling to him through
the hardest. He needs her love through sunshine and victory as well.

He wants to feel through all that his refuge is in her arms as hers is
in his. He wants a wife upon whose breast he can lay his head, when
sorrows come, and weep. He wants one who will make him feel that no
matter where else death strikes, as long as he has her he can endure
life. I remember a man who, when his dearly-beloved sister died, laid
his head on his wife’s shoulder, weeping, and said, “If it were you I
should die.”

There are in history women upon whose strong hearts strong men have
leaned and have become more strengthened in that leaning. Weak men have
become manly through a womanly wife. Strong men have been weakened by
a weak, wicked wife. Truly a man is made or marred when he marries. He
must indeed ask his wife leave to thrive.

It is in every woman’s power to be a well-loved wife. She cannot exact
it: she must win it. She has his affection to start upon. She must
increase it, instead of allowing it to decrease. She must not go upon
the principle that because she is his wife it is his duty to worship
her. If she does, she will be bankrupt as far as his affection is
concerned. Men are not made in that way, as I have said before, and you
must take them as you find them if you take one at all. Many a wife has
allowed her husband’s affection to die. She has fancied, maybe, that
she was lowering her dignity to try to keep what she considered was her
due. Nothing is our due of which we are not worthy. We are not worthy
of a love we do not try to keep. Women who are exacting after marriage
are generally the ones who tried the hardest to attract the man at
first. It is generally the girl who runs after a man till she gets him
who makes no effort after marriage to retain his love, and who talks
the loudest about her “rights, and not grovelling at his feet,” if it
is suggested that she do better.

Before she married she dressed for him. Nothing she owned was too
pretty to put on when she knew he would see her. She was careful to
be tidy in her person. She would never let him see a room in her home
which was in disorder. She was courteous always. She never said an
impatient word to him or before him. If he was cross, she bore it like
an angel. She greeted him always when he came with a sweet smile and
caress. She had loving words for him as she told him how she wanted to
see him every minute since they had parted. She desired in every way
to appear at her best before him. She hid every defect of temper or
disposition.

After marriage she does not care how untidy she is when he comes home.
She never thinks of dressing for him. She is not courteous to him. She
has no loving word, and she never hesitates to speak a cross one to
him. She has smiles yet for the outside world, but none for the man
whom she has promised to love and honor. She talks to him as she would
be ashamed to have any one hear her speak. She never bears with him. If
he is cross, she is crosser. Is it any wonder she loses his love? She
is not what he thought she was, or what he thought he was marrying. If
he had seen her in her true colors before the fatal words were spoken,
he never would have bound himself to her. The beautiful soul, the sweet
smile that won him, are gone. The gentle spirit he fancied he detected,
was a delusion. What he loved, he does not possess. He possesses an
unwomanly wife, and that he did not woo. With a weak man there comes a
break. He often seeks his happiness with another woman. A strong man
endures in silence, growing old and sad, broken in his youth.

Ought this to be? There is no reason, because you have grown familiar
to each other, you should not try to hide your temper as you did
before. There is no reason, because he is “caught” and cannot get away
from you, that you should cease to be attractive to him. You spread
your net well. Now make the nest so attractive that he will be glad
that he was “caught.” Be all that you led him to fancy you were.

Why should not a woman dress for her husband? Why should she not
cultivate a sweet disposition for him and endeavor to make his home
the happiest spot on earth? Why not try to banish from it every cloud,
everything that will annoy or irritate? Is it of no use? It is of the
greatest earthly use. It is a means of helping you both on to Heaven.
If you must be selfish, remember it is making yourself happier to have
your husband love you as he loves no other earthly being. Men, after
all, are easily pleased--you found that out in your courtship days.
They are easily managed too. A man will do almost everything for the
wife that makes him happy. He is almost too much of a slave to her.
She can do what she will to him. With him, getting her own way is only
a matter of tact and sweetness. Husbands are almost all like the man
in the fable of the wind and sun. The sun beat in the end. Warmth of
love and sweetness of manner will gain a victory, where an ill-tempered
insisting upon “rights” fails completely.

Ward McAllister says in his “Society as I Have Found It,” “My advice to
all married women is to keep up flirting with their husbands as much
after marriage as before; to make themselves as attractive after their
marriage as they were when they captivated them; not to neglect their
toilet, but rather to improve it: to be as coquettish and coy after
they are bound together as before when no ties held them.”




Choice Selections in Poetry and Prose.


Compiled by RHODUM L. GRIGGS.


INTRODUCTION.

We know that there is an unfortunate tendency in human nature to treat
with levity the subject of love, courtship and marriage. But a moment’s
consideration should convince you how utterly repugnant it is to all
manly feelings to jest in these matters. They are the most serious
questions of your life, as your weal or woe, and the weal and woe of
those who come after you, depend in great measure, upon the wisdom and
virtue with which you conduct your preparations for marriage. The whole
tendency of such lightness is to cause the marriage relation to be
lightly esteemed, and the true aim of courtship to be lost sight of,
for unless you view it in its true light, with that sober earnestness
which the subject demands, your courtship will be nothing more than a
grand game of hypocrisy, resulting in misery the most deplorable.


LOVE.

Love is an actual need, an urgent requirement of the heart. Every
properly constituted human being who entertains an appreciation of
loneliness and looks forward to a home of happiness and content, feels
the necessity of loving.

Without love, life is unfinished; hope, without aim; nature defective,
and man miserable. Love is the ruling element of life; the great
instrument of nature; that soft, subduing sun against whose melting
beams there is not one human soul in a million, not a thousand men in
all earth’s domain, whose hearts are hardened. Love, if pure, unselfish
and discreet, constitutes the chief happiness of human life. No man
or woman is complete in their experience of life until they have been
subdued into union with the world through their affections. The bosom
which does not feel love is cold; the mind which does not conceive
it is dull; the philosophy which does not accept it is false; the
only true religion in the world has pure, undying love for its basis.
Look back over your life; if there is a bright spot to be seen, it is
where the star of love shed its light; if there is a plant, flower or
any beautiful thing visible it is where the smiles and tears of your
affections were spent; where some fond eye met your own; where some
endearing heart was clasped to yours.

Love, to make your life and home beautiful, must shine on through
years, and its radiance linger till the shadows of death darken
altogether.


COURTSHIP

Is the first turning point in your life, crowded with perils and
temptations. The rose tints of affection dazzle and bewilder your
imagination. You should not trust too much to the impulse of the heart,
or be too easily captivated by a winning exterior.

Not once in a hundred times do two natures, brought side by side,
harmonize in every part. While always bearing in mind that life without
love is a wilderness, it should not be overlooked that true affection
requires solid support. Your object in courtship should not be to
charm, gratify, nor please simply for the present pleasure, but for
the selection of a companion who must bear, suffer and enjoy life
with you in all its forms; one who will walk pleasantly, willingly
and confidingly by your side through all the intricate and changing
vicissitudes incident to mortal life; one possessed of a constitution
of soul similar to your own; of similar age, opinions, tastes, habits,
modes of thought and feeling; one who under any given combination of
circumstances would be affected as you would; one who would approve
what you approve and condemn what you condemn; not for the purpose of
agreeing with you but of her own free will; one who is already united
to you by the ties of spiritual harmony. In the selection of a wife, a
pure, loving heart and good common sense are many times more valuable
than personal beauty or wealth, for once installed in the affections
of such a woman, you have a life claim on her good offices, and no
sacrifice that she can make is too great, no adversity so strong
that it can shake her firmness. True courtship is withal a beautiful
sight. Only the coarse and illiterate can see there aught for ridicule
or jest. It is the flowing together of two separate lives that have
heretofore been divided, now mysteriously brought together, to flow on
through all time, and only God in His infinite wisdom knows how far in
the shadowy hereafter.


MARRIAGE.

For all professions, trades and callings in life, men and women prepare
themselves by previous attention to their principles and duties. They
study them, devote time and money to them. Every imaginable case,
difficulty or trial is considered and duly disposed of according to
the general principles of the trade or profession. But marriage, the
most important and holy relation of life, involving the most sacred
responsibilities and influences, social, civil and religious, that bear
upon men and women, is entered upon in hot haste or blind stupidity by
a great majority of the men and women of to-day.

No man has a right to ask a woman to enter matrimonial bonds with him
unless he is thoroughly acquainted with the female constitution and
character, for he who knows not her nature knows not how to gratify
or satisfy that nature. It is ignorance in these matters that causes
a great amount of matrimonial infelicity. Marriage, to be a blessing,
must be properly entered. It has its fundamental laws, which must be
obeyed.

The conditions upon which its joys and advantages are realized may be
learned beforehand, and should not be entered in blindness, but in
the light of a perfect knowledge of its rules and regulations, its
promises, conditions, laws and privileges, so that no uncertainty shall
follow a knowledge of its reality. Some are disappointed in marriage
because they expect too much from it. Their imagination has pictured a
condition of things never experienced on this side of heaven. With the
marriage ceremony you enter a new world, if you enter understandingly,
and live as becomes thoughtful, considerate human beings, each
trying to bear with the other’s infirmities, and to consider the
other’s happiness as paramount to their own. Marriage then becomes a
delightful scene of domestic happiness, to which all true men and women
look forward as the condition of life most consonant to their true
happiness.


SELECTION OF A HUSBAND.

To the young woman who is just about to determine her start in life,
we would say: Give up your whole mind to this problem of finding a
husband whom you can love, and who can love you. It is worthy of your
utmost effort. Remember that in selecting the father of your child
the qualities which will show in the little one have no relation to
his accomplishments, and that even the homeliest features may become
beautiful, shining with the light of his noble qualities.

The profession of motherhood stands ready to give you every repayment
if you will but devote to fitting yourself for its duties the same
patient effort you would give to the study of any science, or the same
energy you would throw into social duties.

Unlike social distinction, it will not be disappointing; but as the
years go by, loving children will stand ready to enthrone you in their
hearts and gratefully recognize your every effort in their behalf.

_First_--Give perfect truth and exact it.

_Second_--Use every endeavor to eradicate your own faults, and gently,
patiently and lovingly help your companion to do the same.

_Third_--Do not expect too much from either yourself or your mate. Be
humble, with a clear understanding of your own limitations; but be firm
in the determination that with each day you will climb together to a
higher level.

_Fourth_--Do not be discouraged at slow progress. Do not doubt that in
the end you will be repaid for all effort. So also do not doubt that if
you are careless, selfish or deceitful you will be planting seeds for
eventual catastrophe.


WHAT PLEASES MEN AND WOMEN.


THE WOMAN.

It pleases her to be told that she is fascinating; to be called well
dressed; to be called sensible; to depend on some man and pretend
that she is ruling him; to be told that she improves man by her
companionship; to be treated courteously and with respect, and to be
talked to reasonably.

It pleases her to be treated sensibly and honestly; to be considered
and questioned, and not treated as a butterfly with no head or heart.
It pleases her to be loved and admired by a man who is strong enough
to subdue her and make _his_ way her way; to lead her and take care
of her; and it pleases her to find happiness in being ruled by an
intellect that she can look up to admiringly, and one to whom her mind
bows in reverence.


THE MAN.

It pleases the man to have a woman love him; to have her lead him in
the way he wants to go; to have her sometimes treat him as a great big
baby, to be cared for, petted and caressed; also to have her think
him great, and good, and true, and favor him with her attentions
accordingly. It pleases him to have a woman’s bright eyes expressing
the approbation, approval and admiration the lips do not speak.

It pleases him to have her hand smooth away the careworn expression
and wrinkles from his brow, and to have her strength to help him over
the weak places in life. It pleases a worthy man who tries to be good
to have a sweet woman lead him in the way called beautiful. A woman
can sink a man to the depths of misery or help him to the zenith of
happiness; her smile inspires him.


MOODY’S EULOGY ON WOMEN.

“I think that the Almighty intended the work of woman in this world
should be, above all, the rearing of a family. He gave into her keeping
the souls and characters of the young, to make or mar. And surely there
is no nobler or more responsible work than this. From the home--the
domain of woman--spring most of the highest impulses of humanity. And
to fit woman for her great work the Creator made her of a finer cast
than man; there is nothing on earth so noble, so pure, so exalted, so
near the ideal of character, as a woman. Woman can rise higher than
man, but she can likewise sink lower. The very height which she can
attain seems to make her fall the greater when she does fall. There
is great strength and great weakness in woman’s character; and it is
a vital duty of men, whose greater evenness of temperament gives them
greater self-control, and consequently a commanding position, to do
everything in their power to enable the woman to be true to her higher
nature.

“I believe that, other things being equal, the happiest woman is the
woman who is a mother and the maker of a home; but if she cannot fulfil
her true destiny, if she must enter the business world, she should be
given the greatest consideration, simply because she is a woman. I have
heard women say that they ask for nothing on the ground of sex. Perhaps
they don’t, but personally I cannot forget their sex. Even in a purely
business matter, my attitude and manner toward them are not just what
they would be toward men.”--_Dwight L. Moody._

       *       *       *       *       *

“God has made the mind of woman the complement to the mind of man.

“When properly coupled they are a source of strength to each other.
As steel and flint strike fire, so the brightest wit and best thought
spring from the intellectual union of man and wife. Beginning as a
stimulus to research and higher endeavor, each learns to know the mind
of the other. A glance often reads thought without the spoken word.”


A MOTHER’S SMILE.

  Though a mother may seem void of beauty,
    Her tongue have no art to beguile,
  To her children there’s nothing so lovely
    As her face when bright with a smile.

  When they wake from the slumbers of childhood,
    And gaze on the world, half afraid,
  If they see mother’s face bending o’er them,
    Their swift-starting fears are allayed.

  To their fingers her cheek is the softest,
    Though care may have hardened its lines,
  And their bruises are healed by her kisses,
    From lips on which age has its signs.

  She’s a comrade to share in their pastimes,
    A refuge if dangers betide,
  There is always a comfort in troubles,
    A haven of peace at her side.

  Oh, ye mothers, smile oft on your children,
    For blest is the woman whose face,
  Once impressed on these hearts in their childhood,
    Nor distance nor time can efface.

  And more happy the man or the woman,
    Immersed in the world’s snare and wile,
  Who bears upon memory’s tablets
    The thought of a mother’s fond smile.


A LOW VOICE IN WOMAN.

Yes, we agree with that old poet, who said that a low, soft voice
was an excellent thing in woman. Indeed, we feel inclined to go much
farther than he has on the subject, and call it one of her crowning
charms. How often the spell of beauty is rudely broken by coarse, loud
talking! How often you are irresistibly drawn to a plain, unassuming
woman, whose soft, silvery tones render her positively attractive. In
the social circle, how pleasant it is to hear a woman talk in that
low key which always characterizes the true lady. In the sanctuary of
home how such a voice soothes the fretful child and cheers the weary
husband.


CONNUBIALITIES.

It is the hardest thing in love to feign it where it is not, or hide it
where it is; but it is easier counterfeited than concealed. The face
of her we love is the fairest of sights, and her voice the sweetest
harmony in the world. A man is more reserved in his friend’s concerns
than in his own; a woman, on the contrary, keeps her own concerns
better than another’s. A woman will think herself slighted if she is
not courted, yet pretends to know herself too well to believe your
flattery. Absence is to love what fasting is to the body; a little
stimulates it, but a long abstinence is fatal. The greatest pleasure
of life is love; the greatest treasure, contentment; the greatest
possession, health; the greatest ease is sleep; and the greatest
medicine, a true friend.


LOVE.

  “It helps us to bear with the trouble,
   It helps us to stand in the strife,
   It brightens the skies for the sorrowing eyes,
   And lightens the burdens of life.

  “It makes the rose bloom in the desert,
   And brings down the dew on the sod;
   The tempest may beat, but the pathway is sweet
   With the roses and lilies of God.”


YOU KISSED ME.

  “My forehead drooped low on your breast,
   With a feeling of shelter and infinite rest,
   While the holy emotion my tongue dared not speak
   Flashed up like a flame from my heart to my cheek.

  “Your arms held me fast--Oh! your arms were so bold--
   Heart beat against heart in that passionate fold.
   Your glances seemed drawing my soul through my eyes,
   As the sun draws the mist from the sea to the skies.

  “You kissed me! My heart and my breath and my will,
   In delicious joy, for the moment, stood still.
   Life had for me then no temptations, no charms,
   No vision of pleasure outside of your arms.”


THE MARRIAGE QUESTION.

“Thousands marry and the majority of them live together all their
lives. But I think that not more than one couple in ten love each
other, continuously, during that time.

“As soon as they have taken the marriage vows they feel an ownership
of each other, feel that they are bound so that they cannot get away,
and so grow careless about each other’s comforts and pleasures, until,
before they realize it, love has flown, and then it depends upon the
dispositions of the two whether it is a cat-and-dog life or one of
friendship and companionship without love. Remember this: It is nature
to love, and if you do not retain the love of your husband or wife,
some one else is liable to do so.

“For a while you may bind a person to you by marriage vows, but love
can only be bound by love, and it takes the same devotion, the same
love after it is won that it takes to win it in the first place.”--_Goe
Van Hise_, Glendale, Cal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many boys and girls enter matrimony before they are old enough to
realize the responsibility they assume, and they frequently fill
their lives with bitterness by acting so rashly. Wait till you are
old enough to exercise judgment in the choice of your companion; then
choose wisely, and enthrone the goddess of Love upon a heart stamped
with eternal fidelity, and be your home a palace or a cottage, it will
indeed be a “sweet, sweet home.”


THE AGES OF LOVE.

The Outlook, in the Thorwaldsen Gallery, Copenhagen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Friend--It reminds me forcibly of the time when “they were both naked
and were not ashamed.” Indeed, it gave me a new comprehension of the
meaning of that text.

Guide--Which of all Thorwaldsen’s works did you like the best?

Philosopher--How is it possible to tell? There were at least a dozen
best.

Friend--The “Ages of Love,” because it suggested a sermon to me which I
am going to preach some time.

       *       *       *       *       *

The “Ages of Love” is a bas-relief consisting essentially of six
figures, though so combined as to make, as it were, one tableau. In
the first, a covered basket contains a number of imprisoned Cupids,
and a child is curiously lifting a corner of the cover to look in
and learn what love is like. In the second an attendant female
figure--Venus?--has taken a Cupid out of the basket, and a maiden is
eagerly and imploringly reaching out both hands to receive it. In the
third her prayer has been granted, and the woman clasps the Cupid
to her breast. In the fourth the woman is still holding Cupid, but
carelessly by the wings, her mind evidently on other things intent. In
the fifth a man sits looking upon the ground, while Cupid sits perched
upon his back, and he knows not why he is there. In the sixth Cupid
has taken his flight and is just beyond the reach of an old man, who
stretches out his hands in vain to recover the fugitive.

       *       *       *       *       *

Guide--And pray, parson, what would your sermon be?

Friend--Just Thorwaldsen’s sermon; nothing more. It would be in five
subdivisions. First: Childhood inquiring into love. It is right to
inquire. The father and mother should answer the inquiry and not leave
the child to learn of this most sacred mystery of life from profane
lips. Second: Maidenhood seeking love. She is right to seek it. It
is idle to sing, “Love not, love not! the thing you love will die.”
Love is “the greatest thing in the world,” above all others best worth
seeking. Third: Motherhood possessing. Love is wealth indeed, and the
only wealth worth having. The poorest is rich if he have love, and the
richest is poor if he have it not. Fourth: Manhood forgetting love.
Alas, that so many of us no sooner possess love than we forget it, and
are indifferent to it, and put it aside. Love, the most valuable of all
knowledge, has been bestowed on us, and we forget it; the most sacred
of all possessions has been given us, and we turn our backs upon it.
Ambition usurps love’s crown, and the true king is forgotten. And
thus, fifth, and last of all: Love, forgotten, flies away, and the
unloved old man looks longingly about for some one to love him, and
there is none, and he drops into his grave unloved and not missed. It
is the tragedy of life: youth inquiring; maidenhood seeking; motherhood
possessing; manhood forgetting; old age losing.

Guide--When you preach that sermon, give us notice and we will come to
hear it.

Friend--Better, instead, buy a photograph of Thorwaldsen’s bas-relief
and study that. The sermon is all there--and more is there besides.


WHICH ONE?

  One of us, dear, with grief untold,
  Must the other’s death with pain behold,
  Must stand with hand in living hold
  Of stiffened fingers growing cold.
              Dearest, which one?

  One of us, dear, bereft of cheer,
  Must pause beside a flower-strewn bier,
  Must kneel alone and drop a tear
  Upon a form to heart so dear.
              Dearest, which one?

  One of us, dear, with heart like lead,
  Must stand beside a narrow bed,
  Must hear the sod fall on the dead
  With anguished breath and nameless dread.
              Dearest, which one?

  One of us, dear, with stifled moan,
  Must henceforth walk the world alone;
  Must ever yearn for a tender tone,
  Heard only around the Great White Throne.
              Dearest, which one?


KIND WORDS.

Kind words may prove pearls of the highest price; soften and turn away
wrath; make friendship out of enmity, and build a monument of good that
the storms of time cannot destroy. Cherish them, dear boys and girls. A
kind heart full of love and sympathy and loving words, will spring to
your lips to bless, to help and to comfort all around you. “That which
the fountain sends forth returns again to the fountain.”

  Better to hope, though the clouds hang low,
    And to keep the eyes still lifted,
  For the still blue sky will still peep through
    When the ominous clouds are rifted.

  There was never a night without a day,
    Or an evening without a morning;
  And the darkest hour, as the proverb goes,
    “Is the hour before the dawning.”

A life of real virtue, of nobleness, of true greatness, is not an
accident. It comes, if it comes at all, from lofty aspirations, from
incorruptible motives, long cherished, and held sacred as life.


SIN.

“Sin is the most expensive thing possible. It wastes money. It wears
the body into decay. But, bad as these things are, there are even worse
behind, for it blights the intellect and withers the moral nature
of man. It weakens the will; it blunts the conscience; it hardens
the heart. It dries up all the finer feelings of the soul, so that
ultimately all regard for truth and holiness and purity is gone. But
worse yet, sin is an enslaving thing. It becomes the master of the
man who indulges in it and sets him to do the hardest drudgery. It
hires him out, as it were, to feed swine, leaving him to feed along
with them. That which was at first a joy becomes in the end a bondage.
That which was first a pleasant companion becomes at length a cruel
task-master, which compels him to make bricks without straw, and
sometimes even without clay.”--_Dr. W. M. Taylor._

Let not sin, therefore, reign in your M-O-R-T-A-L body.--Rom. vi. 12.


A HYMN.

  “O, help me, Lord, by grace to win
   The victory o’er this world of sin,
   For I am weak when left alone,
   I have no strength to call my own.

  “O! lead me by Thy gentle hand,
   Across this desert’s burning sand,
   And when I’m weary let me rest
   My aching head upon Thy breast.

  “Direct my mind to things divine,
   And keep my thoughts as pure as Thine;
   Oh, let no wicked thoughts come in.
   Let nothing cause my soul to sin.

  “Upon Thy bosom let me lean
   And keep my words so pure and clean
   That angels hearing would not blush,
   Nor heaven’s cry my voice to hush.

  “REFRAIN.

  “O, help me, Lord, by grace to win
   The victory o’er this world of sin,
   And o’er the billows safely guide
   Me to life’s port on the other side.”

  JOHN W. GRIGGS,
   Upshaw, Ala.
  Jan. 26, 1903.


THE SCULPTOR’S DREAM.

  “Chisel in hand stood a sculptor boy,
     With his marble block before him,
   And his face lit up with a smile of joy,
     As an angel dream passed o’er him.
   He carved the dream on that shapeless stone,
     With many a sharp incision;
   With heaven’s own light the sculptor shone--
     He had caught the angel-vision.

  “Sculptors of life are we, as we stand,
     With our soul uncarved before us,
   Waiting the hour, when at God’s command,
     Our life-dream passes o’er us.
   If we carve it then on the yielding stone,
     With many a sharp incision,
   Its heavenly beauty shall be our own--
     Our lives that angel-vision.”

  BISHOP G. W. DOANE.


BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE.

  “If you have a gray-haired mother
     In the old home far away,
   Sit down and write the letter
     You put off day by day.
   Don’t wait until her tired steps
     Reach heaven’s pearly gate--
   But show her that you think of her
     Before it is too late.

  “If you’ve a tender message
     Or a loving word to say,
   Don’t wait till you forget it,
     But whisper it to-day.
   Who knows what bitter memories
     May haunt you if you wait?--
   So make your loved ones happy
     Before it is too late.

  “We live but in the present,
     The future is unknown--
   To-morrow is a mystery,
     To-day is all our own.
   The chance that fortune lends to us
     May vanish while we wait,
   So spend your life’s rich treasure
     Before it is too late.

  “The tender words unspoken,
     The letter never sent,
   The long-forgotten messages,
     The wealth of love unspent.
   For these some hearts are breaking,
     For these some loved ones wait--
   So show them that you care for them
     Before it is too late.”


HOW TO TALK TO MEN.

There are many young girls who complain that they do not know how to
talk to men. They have probably been brought up almost exclusively
among their own sex, and, therefore, look upon men very much as upon
beings of another world, and when they find themselves in masculine
society they are at a loss to know how to make themselves agreeable,
and what to talk about. Their task would be lightened if they realized
that men are, after all, very nearly akin to themselves, and that they
have very much the same ideas, feelings and sentiments. The failure
to recognize this fact generally earns them the character among their
male acquaintances for unamiability or pride; seldom, indeed, are they
credited with the timidity of ignorance. The girl who generally is
acceptable with men is without self-consciousness, and talks to a man
much in the same style as she would to a girl friend.

She is not always thinking of herself and the impression she creates,
but she is kind and sympathetic, and she interests herself in him and
his affairs, and lets him feel it; always, however, taking care to
avoid excess in this respect. When talking with him she shows interest
in the matter under discussion, but, while holding to her own opinions,
she takes care not to assert them with too great eagerness.

No man was ever really influenced by a self-assertive, dogmatic woman,
and the woman who wishes to have men friends must remember that the
secret of both her power and her popularity lies in her gentleness,
sweetness and good temper. She must be cheery, too, and ready with
her smiles; but that is quite another thing, be it remembered, from
the senseless giggling which some girls seem to fancy is particularly
charming to the other sex.


ABOUT ATTRACTING HUSBANDS.

Men have, since the world began, been angled for deliberately by girls,
and times out of count have been caught.

Girls will continue to fish for husbands, and will continue to catch
them as long as marriage is a fashion--a state likely to coincide with
the length of time the world lasts.

But for all that, it need not be asserted, as it so often is, that
all girls angle. Why should the word be used, moreover, with such
bitterness? Surely it is not wrong of girls to behave charmingly and
make themselves look attractive and pretty, and especially so in the
eyes of those men for whose good opinion they are most anxious? If they
were to wear sackcloth and go about veritable kill-joys, is it likely
that they would succeed in winning what they want?

It is said that love is never evenly distributed, and that in every
engaged couple there is more love on one side than on the other. Women
fall in love with the opposite sex just as often as the opposite sex
does with them. What is to happen if a girl sees a man she believes she
could fondly love, and whom she is sure would fondly love her, if she
is debarred from angling for him?

A girl may not propose to a man. She may not put to him the anxious
question, “Do you love me?” From her lips it would be unpardonable were
the tender pleading, “Will you marry me?” to proceed. But she sees one
whom she has good reason to think she could wed and be happy with, and
the sole step she can rightly take to bring about a declaration of love
from him is just this: She can make herself so pleasant and fascinating
that he falls in love with her, and asks her that sweet question she
has so deeply longed to hear from him.

The feminine angler should be very cautious. Let her declare her
purpose--should it be only by a startled word--and a hundred eyes will
dart scorn at her, a hundred tongues condemn her. She who is wise,
however, is careful--both for the sake of the man she loves and her own
reputation--that the little wiles she practices shall appeal only to
him, and shall not be observable by those onlookers who are popularly
supposed to see most of the game. Women are undoubtedly endowed with
a special measure of instinct, and are therefore able to accomplish
wonders, apparently never planned or premeditated. Woe be it to the
swain who does not want to fall in love, should some fair daughter of
Eve will that he shall!

There is this to console him, however: that the said daughter of Eve,
should she be discreet and diplomatic, will so work matters that
the happy man will never guess that he has been singled out for
preference. He will take the bait and greedily swallow it, all the time
under the impression that he was the angler, and that it was only after
the greatest struggle that he managed to land his prize.

He will be as proud of his achievement as he can be--that is to say, if
the girl who has caught him has been very canny during her maneuvers.
She need not be deceitful, nor forward, nor unwomanly, nor any of the
other plain-spoken and objectionable epithets applied to the feminine
angler.

As has been pointed out, she need merely be a tactful, purposeful,
clever girl, one who, knowing her own powers to charm, exercises them
for the most valuable end and aim life offers--that of forming a home
in which two persons may be happy, and from which they may radiate
a sufficiency of joy to make the world about it more contented and
felicitous than it was before.

Do marriages arranged as an outcome of the angling principle turn out
well? Does the fascinating little woman whose bright eyes, pretty ways
and dainty dress won her a husband, having secured what she desired,
make for the man whose helpmeet she has elected to be a good wife? If
she does, a dozen to one he will never find out that he was caught; or
if she in some sweet moment should divulge to him the secret, and tell
him in whispers and with shy kisses, how she did her best to draw him
to her, he will, with further kisses, solemnly declare unto her his
delight and gratitude that she so thoughtfully and cleverly made things
easy for a blundering idiot like himself.

On the contrary, should she abandon every effort to please directly
or soon after the golden circlet is firmly on her finger, how rapidly
will his eyes be opened to all the crude and ugly scheming she employed
to secure him! How bitterly will he rue the weak moment in which he
succumbed to her blandishments. Then will the memory of her charming
little speeches and sweet little ways be dust and ashes to him. He will
cease to believe in women, taught by his captor to distrust the sex for
her sake.

There is all the difference in the world between the girl who angles
honestly, so that a happy union may be had with the man she loves, and
the girl who angles simply for the achievement of some tribute to her
vanity--a wealthy husband, a husband with more money than her friend’s
husband possesses, or a husband who will give her a title and position.

There are few women so purely calculating that, once having achieved
their object, they can deliberately show themselves in their true
colors. Captious, irritable, ill-tempered, untidy--all these
distressing characteristics they may reveal to their miserable husbands
later, but for the first few weeks of marriage they rarely unmask. It
is when the home is settled into, and the regular routine of existence
begins, that the test is fairly made.

The admirable angler now shows herself in her true colors. She means
to be a good housekeeper, so she studies her husband’s likes and
dislikes, and incontestably, though silently, demonstrates to him that
since he hates bacon he shall not have it every morning. Above all, she
reflects, and recollects, and realizes that what he loved her for in
those very early days, when first she taught him to grow fond of her,
were her pretty ways. And who shall say, with so glorious a result as
this winning woman shall achieve, that she was wrong in her girlhood to
be an angler?

If there were more of them! But there are more than is imagined. Only
it is the happy country that has no history, and the successful angler
that has no historian.


DUTIES OF AN ENGAGED GIRL.

An engaged girl should endeavor to be both a comfort and a help to her
lover; not merely a pet and plaything. It is a very bad augury for the
future when a man instinctively feels that a wax doll would be of as
much use to his worries as she whom he intends making his helpmeet for
life. And yet, only the other day, a gentleman was heard to exclaim:
“No, no; I would not trouble Lily for the world; why, she is only made
for the sunshine and the flowers.”

Again, it is the engaged girl’s duty to be open and candid in all
her relations with her lover. The seeds of much future distrust and
unhappiness are sown if once he suspects she is keeping a secret from
him. It is also her duty to be considerate of his wishes, and if he
have a harmless antipathy to any little thing or other, let her humor
him in this. No doubt she also has some little “fads” which require
consideration.

For instance, that girl was wise who ceased adopting “mannish” ways
because her sweetheart disapproved. By doing so she only rendered
herself more charming than ever in his eyes. To be punctual is another
of the engaged girl’s duties. She has no more business to keep her
lover waiting than he has to keep her waiting. Tardiness is not a sign
of maidenly indifference, as some damsels seem to think. It is merely
an indication of bad manners. Of course, it is her bounden duty to be
engaged openly. Her lover should be known to her parents, and, where
practicable, should visit her at her own house. In conclusion, I will
mention the last and most important duty of all, and that is that she
should love her lover with her whole heart, mind and strength. If she
does not perform this office thoroughly and well, the others might just
as easily be left alone.


PREMATURE MATRIMONY.

Marriage is a divine and beautiful arrangement, as designed in
God’s providence. It is the blending of two spirits in one. Man is
incomplete without his wife: he has strength, she has beauty. “It is
not good that man should be alone.” “Whoso findeth a wife findeth a
good thing.”

  “Of all the joys that man can feel,
     The purest sure are there.
   While o’er his heart affections steal,
     Like balmy summer air;
   His wife’s caress, his children’s smile,
   Unlike the world are free from guile.”

Premature marriages are among the greatest evils of the times--the
result of fancy. The ballroom or evening party never develops real
character. Matches made at such places, or made under similar
circumstances, are not of the class that originate in heaven. They more
generally are conceived in the opposite place, and bring forth only
iniquity.

The true way to study and learn one another is to do it at home, in
the parlor, in the kitchen, and on occasions that test the temper.
We see the result of premature unions in the almost daily divorces
that are taking place; in the running away of husbands--leaving their
wives and children to starve--and in the elopement of wives. Not only
this, but we witness it in broken-spirited men, made old in the prime
of life, struggling on for mere food, clothing, and mere shelter; and
in woman, cross, sluttish and wrinkled. And the result does not stop
with the husband and wife. There are the children; they partake of the
feebleness and vices of the parents, both physical and moral, and go
out into the world stunted and gnarled. Young friends, _beware_!

  “O lasses take care where fancy lights,
     This world’s full of snares:
   The end of frolicsome fancy’s flights
     Is oft a nest of cares.”

A judicious writer, alluding to the matrimonial state, says: “There
is not a city, scarcely a township, which does not number among its
inhabitants women who have married on very short acquaintance, only
to be abused, deserted, and left a burden and a lifelong sorrow to
the families in which they were born and reared, and which they most
imprudently and improperly deserted to share the fortunes of relative
strangers.”

If young ladies would realize how grossly indelicate, as well as
culpably reckless, such marriages appear in the eyes of the observing,
they surely would forbear. A year’s thorough acquaintance, with
the most circumstantial accounts, from disinterested and reliable
witnesses, of the antecedents from childhood, are the very least
guarantee which any woman who realizes what marriage is, will require
of a stranger.

Even then, if her parents are not fully satisfied, as well as herself,
she should still hesitate. Marriage is an undertaking in which no delay
can be so hazardous as undue precipitation.

“A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself; but the simple
pass on and are punished.”--_Solomon._

In how many instances, of the present day, is marriage merely a
union of hands--the affection not being taken into consideration.
The question on the one side, “Is she handsome? has she money?” on
the other, “Can he support me in style? shall I be able to make an
appearance?” How much better would it be to ask, “Has the woman a
heart capable of pure affection?” “Will she be willing to share with
me adversity as well as prosperity?” “Will she forsake all others and
cleave only to me through weal and woe?”

And woman, yes, woman, she whose very nature ought to stimulate her
to higher and holier motives for taking upon herself the marriage
relation, is too often anxious only as to the length of her husband’s
purse, and the amount of his bank stock; the heart, the mind, the
intellect, in fact everything really worth marrying for, being
non-essentials.

But, oh, the misery which too often follows such marriages! The
husband, when it is too late, laments his blindness and his folly.
The wife is made to realize that riches take to themselves wings and
fly away; and then comes the consciousness of a want of sympathy and
congeniality of feelings. Both are thrown back upon themselves, for not
a chord in the breast of one vibrates in unison with the other.

Let the young beware how they enter the marriage state from such
motives, lest they wake too late from the delusion. Consult the
judgment, and hesitate when that says “Beware.” Let the property be
_in_ rather than _with_ the companion.

Oh, the loneliness of an unwedded heart! The hands may be united, but
to feel that in heart you are separated must be misery indeed. To think
of being obliged to associate for life with one who has not a feeling
of sympathy with you, and who is, moreover, in sentiment, taste and
feeling directly opposed to you--how revolting the thought! Then, let
love, not ambition, lead you to form those ties that naught but death
can honorably sever.

Weigh well the consequences of one wrong or hasty step in the choice
of a companion for life. Walk softly here, lest you fall, to rise no
more. Seek wisdom from above. “In all thy ways acknowledge the Lord,
and He shall direct thy paths.” “Seek first the kingdom of God and His
righteousness” at all times, and you are safe.

  “Oh, happy state! when souls each other draw;
   When love is liberty and nature’s law;
   All then is full, possessing and possessed,
   No craving void left aching in the breast;
   E’en thought meets thought, ere from the lips it part,
   And each warm wish springs mutual from the heart.”


THE GIFT OF GIFTS--A WORD TO HUSBANDS.

Husband, have you this gift of gifts? Has God in superabounding
mercy given you a dear wife, lovely, virtuous, prudent, sensible,
intelligent, and above all a God-fearing wife, meek, modest, humble,
Christlike?--“an helpmeet” in very deed? Well, what do you think of it?
Do you appreciate the blessing duly?--make suitable returns? _Can_ you
do it? Such a gift is unspeakable. How few, comparatively, appreciate
the gift of a good wife?

A very godly man said to us recently, “I thank the Lord daily,
hourly, for the jewel of a wife God hath given me.” A distinguished
writer--speaking of the value of a good wife--remarks thus: “In the
true wife the husband finds not affection only, but companionship--a
companionship with which no other can compare. The family relation
gives retirement without solitude, and society without the rough
intrusion of the world. It plants in the husband’s dwelling a friend
who can listen to the details of his interests with sympathy, who
can appreciate his repetition of events, only important as they are
embalmed in the heart. Common friends are linked to us by a slender
thread. We must retain them by ministering, in some way, to their
interest or their enjoyment. What a luxury it is for a man to feel
that in his house there is a true and affectionate being, in whose
presence he may throw off restraint without danger to his dignity; he
may confide without the fear of treachery, and be sick or unfortunate
without being abandoned. If in the outward world he grow weary of human
selfishness, his heart can safely trust in one whose soul yearns for
his happiness, and whose indulgence overlooks his defects.”

Give your wives to understand that you esteem them above all others;
make them your confidants; confide in them and they will confide in
you; confidence begets confidence, love begets love, sweetness begets
sweetness.

Above all, sympathize with the wives of your bosoms in the hour of
affliction. Rejoice with them when they rejoice, and weep with them
when they weep. Who, if not a bosom companion, will wipe from the cheek
the falling tear of sorrow? Finally, husbands, remember that death
will soon sever the connubial cord! When you behold her, with whom you
lived, and toiled, and wept, and rejoiced, cold and lifeless, laid in
the coffin--

  “Think of the happiness so deep and tender
     That filled thy heart when wandering by her side,
   Think how her faintest smile had power to render
     The darkest moment one of love and pride.

  “And now that this frail form in death grows colder,
     A sweet, calm rapture fills the parting hour,
   That thou art with her, though a sad beholder,
     A witness of the dear Redeemer’s power!”

Will you _then_ regret that you studied _always_ to promote her
happiness? that the law of kindness and love dwelt on your lips
_evermore_? O think, and be _now_ her ministering angel!

“A prudent wife is from the Lord,” _directly_; to God be all the praise.


THE GOOD WIFE.

Jeremy Taylor says, “If you are for pleasure, marry; if you prize
rosy health, marry; and if money is your object, marry. A good wife
is heaven’s best gift to man--his angel and minister of graces
innumerable--his gem of many virtues--his casket of jewels--her
voice, his sweetest music--her smiles, his brightest day--her kiss,
the guardian of his innocence--her arms, the pale of his safety, the
balm of his health, the balsam of his life--her industry, his surest
wealth--her economy, his safest steward--her lips his faithful
counselors--her bosom, the safest pillow of his cares--and her prayers
the ablest advocates of heaven’s blessings on his head.”


WOMAN.

  “She ne’er with treacherous kiss her Saviour stung,
   Nor e’er denied Him with unholy tongue;
   She, when apostles shrank, could danger brave;
   Last at His cross and earliest at His grave.”

       *       *       *       *       *

  “To think of summers yet to come,
     That I am not to see;
   To think a weed is yet to bloom
     From dust that I shall be!

  “To think when heaven and earth are fled,
     And times and seasons o’er,
   When all that can die shall be dead,
     That I must die no more!

  “Ah! where will then my portion be?
   How shall I spend eternity!”

       *       *       *       *       *

The Literary Sensation of the Hour

IS

The Confessions of A Young Girl

_By VERA_

[Illustration]

WOULD YOU care to see love revealed in a new and entrancing light,
revealed by one whose very soul is burning with a divine and absorbing
passion?

WOULD YOU care to have revealed to you the pre-nuptial desires of a
young and beautiful woman, madly longing for her lover’s embrace?

WOULD YOU care to see passion revealed with a fire and intensity
inconceivable to the average human?

WOULD YOU care to gaze into a heart throbbing deliriously with the joy
of a transcendent happiness, then staggering under the weight of a
nameless horror?

WOULD YOU care to study the quivering soul of a woman and watch her as
she revels in wild and ecstatic emotions, the joy of bliss realized,
and later gaze upon her as she sinks into the agonizing and abysmal
depths of ruin and despair?

WOULD YOU like to be lifted out of your dull, commonplace self and
thrilled with new thoughts, new impulses, new blood red emotions, by a
gloriously beautiful woman who opens the secret chambers of her heart
so that you may observe at close range the roaring volcano of love that
is consuming her very soul?

Then seize this momentous opportunity and reap an experience which no
other volume can afford, by reading

THE CONFESSIONS OF A YOUNG GIRL

The book that has caused a sensation in the old world and is now
sweeping the Western Hemisphere like a prairie fire.

THE LITERARY SENSATION OF TWO CONTINENTS

Printed from large type, and bound in paper cover with illustration in
colors. Sent to any address by mail postpaid on receipt of Price, 30
cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWO HUNDRED OLD-TIME SONGS.

This volume contains the _words and music_ of choicest gems of the old
and familiar songs we used to sing when we were young. It has been
arranged with great care and we have no hesitation in saying that it is
the best book of the kind published. Read the following =partial table
of Contents=. The book contains 130 songs besides the ones mentioned
here and would cost $50 in sheet music form.

[Illustration]

  Willie, We Have Missed You.
  Wait for the Wagon.
  Oh Dear! What Can the Matter be.
  Oh Why do you Tease Me.
  Oh, Would I Were a Bird.
  Oh, Would I Were a Boy Again.
  Over the Garden Wall.
  Pilgrim Fathers, The.
  Pat Malloy.
  Pauper’s Drive, The.
  Paddle Your Own Canoe.
  Robin Adair.
  Robinson Crusoe.
  Don’t You Go, Tommy.
  Free as a Bird.
  In the Gloaming.
  John Anderson, My Joe.
  Katie’s Letter.
  Little Annie Rooney.
  Larboard Watch.
  Life on the Ocean Wave, A.
  Low Backed Car, The.
  Mollie, Put the Kettle On.
  Meet Me by Moonlight.
  Nancy Lee.
  O, Boys Carry Me ’Long.
  Oh! Susannah.
  Our Flag is There.
  O Had I Wings Like a Dove.
  Old Oaken Bucket, The.
  O Come, Come Away.
  Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep.
  Rock Me to Sleep, Mother.
  Sparkling and Bright.
  There was an Old Woman.
  ’Tis the Last Rose of Summer.
  Rose of Allandale.
  Star Spangled Banner, The.
  Saint Patrick Was a Gentleman.
  See Saw, Margery Daw.
  Sing a Song of Sixpence.
  See, the Conquering Hero Comes.
  Stop Dat Knockin’.
  Sally in Our Alley.
  Scots, What Ha’e Wi’ Wallace Bled.
  Sword of Bunker Hill, The.
  Spider and the Fly, The.
  Shells of Ocean.
  Steal Away.
  Take Back the Heart.
  Three Fishers Went Sailing.
  Ten Little Niggers.
  ’Tis the Last Rose of Summer.
  Ta-Ra-Ra-Boom-De-Ay.
  Thou Art Gone From My Gaze.
  There is a Green Hill far Away.
  There was a Jolly Miller.

This book of 176 pages containing the above entire list of songs and
many others, _words and music_, will be sent by mail postpaid upon
receipt of price. Paper Cover, 35 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HOUSEWIFE’S TREASURE!

THE HOME-KEEPER’S DELIGHT!

PEERLESS! UNEQUALLED!

THE EVERYDAY COOK BOOK

[Illustration]

saves money, saves labor. Makes cooking pleasurable, easy and
delightful. Without previous experience or instruction, by the aid
of this magic volume, the busy housewife can quickly learn to make
hundreds of savory, appetizing, nourishing dishes, plain or fancy,
dainty or substantial.

Easy! Practical! Economical! Concise!

THE EVERYDAY COOK BOOK

is the Aladdin’s lamp that converts the kitchen into fairy land, and
the stove, oven and range into magic producers of appetizing and
delicious edibles.

TWO THOUSAND FAVORITE RECIPES

for cooking every known variety of food. Dishes that tickle the palate,
satisfy the appetite, aid digestion, promote health and prolong life.
The magic portal to a world of toothsome delights.

IT TELLS YOU HOW! IT SHOWS YOU HOW!

  Makes Poor Cooks Good Cooks!
  Converts Drudgery Into Pleasure, Toil Into Delight!
  It Tells You What to Eat! When to Eat! How to Eat!
  What to Buy! When to Buy! How to Buy!

Every recipe has been thoroughly tried and tested, and pronounced by
numerous housewives to be _par excellence_, not only as to pleasant
results, but also in regard to the _small cost_ involved. Also contains
scores of immensely valuable household hints and information on every
subject of interest to the cook, housewife and home-keeper.

  A Cook Book and Home Encyclopedia All in One!
      Invaluable for the Kitchen! Unequalled for the Home!
          You Want it! You Cannot do Without It! Buy It Now!

The book contains 200 pages, size 7 x 5 inches, is bound in heavy paper
cover, and will be sent by mail, postpaid, upon receipt of only 30
cents in stamps or silver.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORTUNE-TELLING BY CARDS, DICE, and CRYSTAL.

[Illustration]

Here, indeed, is a book every young man or woman should have. You must
have often noticed at card parties, while sitting or standing around
waiting for late arrivals to come, there are a few moments when you
wish they’d start, or you wish there was “something doing.” Just at
this moment is your chance to make a hit with your fortune-telling
by cards. No matter how poor you are at it, the crowd will flock
around you four and five deep. You will be the king bee, as it were,
and you will have the inward pleasure of making the others feel like
a long skirt on a rainy day--very damp. In addition to the above,
“Fortune-Telling by the Magic Crystal” is gone into in detail, giving
all the symbols for a correct divination of the future. “The Oraculum:
or, Napoleon Buonaparte’s Book of Fate” (especially translated) is
given here for perhaps the first time in the English language. A table
of questions generally applicable has been compiled, and 16 pages
of answers, to suit any temperament or individuality, are given.
“Fortune-Telling With Dice” is very complete, giving an assorted list
of 32 answers to questions for every possible throw of two dice. Get
this book, study it, and use it at the first opportunity, and if the
girls don’t say you are certainly IT we’ll refund the money. Here’s a
chance to make a hit.

The book contains 100 pages, fully illustrated, is bound in paper
cover, and will be sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of price, 30
cents. Address

       *       *       *       *       *

HAND BOOK SERIES.

The following list contains the BEST that is written on dreams,
recitations and the art of DOING THINGS. All of them are well printed,
and bound in handsome colored covers, most of them being illustrated
throughout.

[Illustration]

  Twelve Hundred New Riddles.
  Model Letter Writer.
  Gipsy Dream Book and Fortune Teller.
  Amateur’s Guide to Magic and Mystery.
  How to Entertain a Social Party.
  How to Woo and How to Win.
  The Old Witches’ Dream Book and Fortune Teller.
  Two Hundred After-Dinner Stories.
  The Swindlers of America.
  Art of Ventriloquism.
  Howard Thurston’s Card Tricks.
  Hand-Shadows on the Wall.
  Your Hand is Your Fortune.
  Southwick’s Jokes and Recitations.
  Southwick’s Irish Dialect Poems and Recitations.
  Fortune Telling by Cards, Dice, Crystal, Etc.
  Carter’s Magic and Magicians.
  Taylor’s Popular Recitations.
  Love, Courtship and Marriage.
  Temptations of the Stage.
  Behind the Scenes.
  Children’s Recitations.
  Recitations For Little People.
  A Hundred Ways of Kissing Girls.
  Five Hundred Toasts.
  Great Words of Great Men.
  After-Dinner Stories.
  A Thousand Conundrums.
  How to Mix Drinks.
  How to Read Character by Handwriting.
  Green Room Gossip.
  The Art of Kissing.
  Palmistry.
  How To Become Beautiful.
  The Album Writer’s Friend.
  The Confessions of a Young Girl.
  Vail’s Dream Book.
  Pocket Manual of Useful Information.

Any of these books will be mailed, postpaid, for 30 cents.

  OHIO CARD CO.,
  COLUMBUS OHIO

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

“A Young Widow” is a pen name of Irene W. Hartt.

Punctuation has been made consistent.

Variations in spelling and hyphenation were retained as they appear in
the original publication, except that obvious typographical errors have
been corrected.

The following change was made:

p. 7: illegible first letter assumed to be y (with yearning only,)

p. 63: her inserted (as her parents)

Ad for “FORTUNE-TELLING BY CARDS, DICE, and CRYSTAL”: The address is
missing at the end of the ad after the “Address” label.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOW TO GET MARRIED, ALTHOUGH A
WOMAN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
